The reality is the fundamentals are
still sound. I don't think we have yet
seen the real bubble trade in AI.
>> The market's done a little bit of work
here to take some of the froth out.
>> I think you could have a situation where
the Magnificent 7 become a little less
valuable and the rest of the market
becomes more valuable.
>> We think there's a broadening out.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance Stock Stocks taking a
breather after the biggest two-day gain
since May with investors looking out for
retail earnings and data later this
morning. President Trump lowering the
temperature even further with China with
plans to visit that nation in April. And
Alphabet exerting a new influence over
the Magnificent 7 with futures surging
on reports that they're posing some
competition Danny to Nvidia. I just want
to extend my sympathies for everyone
like us who have had to all of a sudden
do a deep dive on TPUs versus GPUs. But
that is the place we're in. There's some
real churn underneath the surface of
tech of who is the winner of AI. The
market still hasn't fully decided that
the price action I think will be
interesting today. Can you continue to
get a rebound if Nvidia isn't playing
along even if we've decided at least for
now the new winner is Alphabet? Yeah.
Can you get a dispersion in the
Magnificent 7 in the big tech space and
not have an overall market rollover?
This is the key question. We saw this
yesterday when there were questions
about Open AI and Google once again
posing real competition to the entire
model with more profitability. And now a
real question of whether they could
supersede maybe not Nvidia, but clearly
the other Magnificent 7. It's clearly
right now number three in terms of
market capitalization. very much on
course for $4 trillion and it's added so
much to the S&P 500 just given the rally
we've seen over the past month. So does
it mean that we have all of a sudden
have chips that are more energy
efficient that have better use cases not
as broad but more efficient at doing the
task at hand than Nvidia? The problem
with that is is that Nvidia has created
this really complex web. So it's not
just Nvidia that suffers. It's
Microsoft. It's SoftBank whose shares
are getting killed today. Open AAI maybe
has a problem. Anthropic has a problem.
Just these inter relationships mean that
it's bigger than just one company
specific.
>> This is clearly an area that is rife for
some sort of disruption which is very uh
clear to a lot of people increasingly so
as we see some of this price action.
We'll get into your studies on GPOS
versus TPUs because you'll whip out your
PowerPoint presentation and I'm sure
everyone will actually be really
interested in it. We do get a bunch of
retail earnings this morning and I think
it's interesting before the market opens
we get Burlington, Kohl's, Best Buy,
Dick Sporting Goods, Abberrombie and
Vitch. after the bell wea urban
outfitters to get these earning reports
in the kickoff season of the holidays
really create some possible visibility
into consumer appetite because I think
there are now some serious questions
being asked about the consumer there
being more cautious things put out there
beimo for example did a survey of a
thousand consumers and they say that
holiday spending will be more modest
this year was also a report on carnival
from Barclays yesterday that said we
went and we surveyed the management and
they also see more cautious. Cruise
lines have been these things that people
have pointed to saying, "Look how good
the consumer is." What happens if that's
starting to soften?
>> Yeah. And yesterday, you did see about
half of the S&P 500 stocks not
participate in the best two-day rally
going back to May, including Carnival
shares to exactly that point because of
this fear around the consumer. Later
this morning, we also do get retail
sales data uh coming out for September.
Some interesting Fed speak over the past
24 hours. Mary Daly lining up very
squarely in the camp of Chris Waller and
potentially John Williams to cut rates.
She's not a voting member, but she has
never departed from what Fed share J.
Powell has ultimately voted with. And it
really is signaling to markets, guess
what they're going to cut. And and and
this is what it's come to, right, of
reading tea leaves trying to figure out
which way Jay Powell leans because we
haven't heard from the man himself. And
just given how divided the Fed is, the
thinking goes is that Jay Powell will
have the ability to sway to cut or not
to cut. And to your point, because Mary
Daly is so aligned with Chair Powell,
we're looking to her for direction. So
right now, we're looking for direction
in equities. You are seeing a bit of a
bounce back from earlier lows. Still off
though, still lower uh down about a
tenth of a percent on the S&P futures.
You are seeing yields just marginally
creeping higher on the long end.
Yesterday we did see an auction that did
tail 10ear yields 4.03% 03% still lower
than where we were yesterday and crude
off just about a third of a percent.
Coming up this hour, Peter Shear of
Academy Securities with stocks coming
off their best day in six weeks. Ed Al
Husini of Columbia Thread Needle and why
AI may not have the impact on economic
productivity that so many people think
and former senior White House trade
adviser Kellyanne Shaw with fresh talks
between the US and China. We begin this
hour with stocks edging lower as
investors countdown to retail earnings
as well as data. Peter Shear of Academy
Securities writing, "The end of free
money has been a major factor in the
recent downturn and could weigh on the
economy and markets going forward. I
think the economy is at a greater risk
than we've seen in some time." Peter
joins us now. Peter, great to see you.
>> Good to see you, too.
>> This seems to be echoing what we heard
from Neil Dada yesterday of Renaissance
Macro where he said that he thinks the
train may have already left the station
when it comes to Fed rate cuts and the
potential damage uh that has been forced
upon the economy. Why are you so
negative as well? So what I'm seeing I
think is what we're calling the end of
free money and kind of being bit
cavalier about that but there was a time
right if you announced you were spending
x billion on data centers or AI your
stock went up 2x and all of a sudden now
you're seeing people question that
you're seeing stories emerged about
which technology should we use so I
think we're going through this breather
right a year ago at this time if you
didn't have an AI strategy you were
ridiculed as a CEO your stock was going
to suffer so there was spend spend spend
there was this kind of real rush to
spend spend spend now I think everyone's
sitting back okay what do we want want
to spend on what is the best value and
the hyperscalers right all of a sudden
you can't just say you're going to build
more and your stock goes up so this is
kind of this first time I think we might
see a bit of an AI diet where people are
like okay how do we be cautious on this
where do we spend what do we spend on
what technologies is emerging we haven't
talked about anything out of China yet
that could derail some of our stocks so
I think this is where we get a bit of a
slowdown right now
>> before we get into the details of the AI
trade you said the end of free money and
I want to dive into that because
yesterday we were talking about
tightening liquidity conditions now a
lot People attributed that to the
sell-off that we saw in things like
Bitcoin and also the big tech names. Why
is this now the end of free money with
the Federal Reserve cutting rates and
ending quantitative tightening?
>> Well, you've also seen coming back to
some of the crypto you had the uh DACO
or you know the digital asset treasury
companies. Some are very sophisticated,
some do a lot of things. Some simply buy
the underlying and there was a period of
time right if you bought X amount of
ether your stock went up 2x. All of a
sudden that's not happening. So all
these trades that were kind of
self-perpetuating are falling down and
you're having a bit less liquidity come
through this and everything I hear and
see when we're talking whether it's
consumers, corporate, I feel there's
belt tightening going on everywhere. I
think people are going to be a little
bit surprised as they go through the
budgeting process that companies are
actually shrinking their budgets rather
than growing you know full scale.
>> What do you think the administration
does in this? Because we were speaking
with the commerce secretary yesterday
who was beating the drum saying AI has
been such a boon for our economy. David
Saxs the cryptozar which also has an ear
to the administration was putting on X
yesterday that uh it is an AI related
investment accounts that half of GDP and
a reversal would risk recession. Is this
an administration that would see this
sector as too big to fail as Sam Alman
has hinted at to the chagrin of others
at open AI? You know what I think they
are doing? I think it's rightfully to do
is investing heavily in electricity and
energy production, right? We are putting
money into nuclear. We're putting money
into everything that's that's really the
bottleneck right now is this electricity
and supposedly that's one of the
arguments with the TPUs versus the GPUs
is lower electricity usage. So I think
electricity is actually a bottleneck. I
see the government spending a lot of
time on that which fits very much I know
you're sick of hearing it but uh
production for security or pros. I think
they are trying to figure out I think
these are the things that the
government's trying to make sure goes
along. I think it's going to be hard for
them to intervene directly in AI. But
yes, if we get this AI slowdown unless
other parts of the economy really pick
up, we are going to see that this
potential maybe not a recession but a
slowdown and that's why I'm concerned.
How
>> how does the wealth effect play into
that? Lisa's been talking about how just
more of uh of everyday people of
households own e equities at this point
and a lot of the gains in equities have
been tied to AI. If AI starts to take a
breather, what overall wealth effect
does that come back and have on the
consumer? Well,
>> I think we've already seen a big hit to
crypto, right? Bitcoin itself is down
650 billion and it seems to track very
well. You know, I always use ARK as a
proxy for disruptive, you know, stocks.
Those stocks are down. So, you've kind
of seen this big move in certain
segments of the market. Almost anything
momentum related is down. So, I think
you've already seen a chunk of wealth
wiped out for people who would spend
that money. So, I think we need to see
this turnaround or you're going to see
everyone, hey, maybe we got to be a
little bit cautious, right? We are kind
of everything's going to the moon.
Crypto is going to 200,000, whatever the
number is. All of a sudden, you're
sitting here at 86,000 on Bitcoin. I
think it does create this negative
wealth effect where people are going to
be conservative coming into their
spending.
>> So there are three ways to look at this.
There's one way to look at it saying
okay this is going to be a recession
next year that no one's expecting which
is typically how it happens which is
what we we heard from yel duta. Then
there's a way of saying that actually
there's going to be a rebound early next
year because of the tax refunds and
other types of stimulative effort but
that there will be sort of this flagging
growth. And then the third way of
looking at this is it is going to be
morally hazardous for either this
administration or the Federal Reserve to
allow this market to crater. So you're
going to see this bazooka of stimulus
coming from quantitative easing from Fed
rate cuts and from fiscal that will
ultimately propel this market higher.
Where do you fall in?
>> Um you know I do think coming into the
midterm elections we are going to see a
huge effort. I think Trump and Trump 1.0
learn the pain if you don't win the
midterms. It's really hard to govern
your next two years. So I expect a lot
of stimulus coming into that. And I have
liked, for example, my favorite trade
right now has been to be underweight
NASDAQ 100. So QQQ and ETF form. And I
like the S&P 500 equal weight. So RSP is
one, you know, ETF that you can use for
that. And I think you're going to get
this bit of a rebalancing, right? Some
of the air is going to leak out of the
AI. Some of it should be transferring to
the rest of the economy. And that's why
I like kind of the equal weighted S&P
500. I think as we take away investor
focus from the AI AI to electricity,
which is still going to be a part of
this, but what else is going on in the
economy? What else are we building? What
are we making? We are going to be trying
to build manufacturing plants. We're
going to be trying to build mines. We're
going to be trying to build refining and
processing companies. So, there will be
activity. And I think that's the area
that's going to shine next year.
>> If you are defensive, can you go into
long-term bonds with the expectation
that this is an incentivized Federal
Reserve to ultimately bring down
long-term costs in whatever type of
financial engineering it requires?
>> Normally, I would say yes, but I'm I'm
kind of stuck more in the belly of the
curve, 5 to seven years. I just think
there's going to be some outward
pressure on the tens and beyond as
people are nervous. Did we cut too much?
Are we being too aggressive? Are we
paying attention to inflation? So, I
think that's going to diminish a bit of
the rally there. So, I kind of like the
belly of the curve. I think you're going
to see twos 10 spreads actually go
potentially to 100. So, I could see us
down at 3% on Fed funds and I could
still see a 10-year close to 4%.
>> Are you getting those vibes from the Fed
that they are going to be forceful in
their cuts? We heard from Chris Waller
yesterday saying yes, December and then
it's meeting by meeting. I'll be
slightly embarrassingly honest. I'm not
really paying that much attention. I
think we are going to get a new
administration. It's going to the Fed's
going to look very different next year.
We're going to get to 3% before the
middle of the summer. I don't really
care whether it's a cut in December or
not. That's kind of my base case, right?
This is the direction we're headed. It's
going to come almost hell or high water.
So, that's kind of how I'm thinking
about it. I'm spending less attention to
who's talking today and tomorrow. Look
who's going to be talking in the future.
We know we're getting these cuts next
year.
>> I love it. It tells you something,
Daniel, when Peter Shear is not keeping
track of each Fed speaker. Maybe they
have no clue and it's completely
divided.
>> Also a great way to preserve your sanity
I think
>> 100%. So congratulations for being sane.
Peter Sheer the sane one is going to be
sticking with us right now. Let's get
you an update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your Bloomer brief with
Bonnie Quinn. Bonnie, good morning.
Lisa, fighting between Russia and
Ukraine continuing overnight with heavy
Russian drone and missile attacks on Kev
and Ukrainian assaults on southern
Russia. The exchange is coming after
President Trump suggested quote big
progress was being made on a deal to end
the fighting following weekend talks in
Geneva. White House press secretary
Caroline Lev says he still hopes the
deal can get done by Thanksgiving.
President Trump and his Chinese
counterpart Xiinping held their first
talk since agreeing last month to a
tariff truce. Trump says the call was
very good and touched on issues such as
trade and Ukraine. He also says he will
visit Beijing in April and that he
invited she for a state visit next year.
Shares of Google parent Alphabet rising
in the pre-market on reports Meta is in
talks to spend billions of dollars on
the search giants AI chips. The
information reporting Meta plans to use
Google's Tensor processing units or TPUs
in data centers from 2027. An agreement
will help establish TPUs as an
alternative to Nvidia's GPU chips.
That's your Bloomberg brief. Lisa, thank
you so much, Bonnie. All right, this is
the time. Just 5 minutes. Wow. 5
seconds. Thank you. I'm
>> CPU versus TPU. 30U. Nvidia's chip
originally for graphics processing, so
takes a lot of energy and has a lot of
broad applications. TPU built by Google,
very application specific, so more
efficient, maybe a better chip, but
people are already using a lot of Nvidia
chips and there's a kind of locked in
thing to it. So, it's hard to get to the
other one. This is the debate. more
energy efficient, although more
restrictive or potentially more
expensive energy intensive, but
flexible. The race is on. Up next, we're
going to be talking about lowering the
temperature with China. It lasted about
an hour and it was a very positive call.
The focus was mainly um on the trade
deal that we are working on with China
and those relations and how they are
moving in a positive direction.
>> Bloomberg's Michael Solner joins us
next. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
Stocks just kind of meandering here,
dipping just a touch after yesterday's
surge, the biggest in six weeks for the
S&P 500. the biggest two-day rally for
the S&P and NASDAQ going back to May
today. Taking a little heat out of that,
down about a tenth of a percent for S&P
futures, seeing yields just up
marginally, but still lower uh than they
were to start yesterday, 4.03%.
Meanwhile, take a look at Nvidia and uh
Google, Alphabet in pre-market trading.
A huge dispersion here in the fates of
the two, and they're connected with
Alphabet shares uh up 4.1% in pre-market
trading. Nvidia lower by 3.6. on that
news that Alphabet might be gaining some
clout in the TPU game. We'll get into
that coming up. Under surveillance this
morning, lowering the temperature with
China.
I did speak with him about the call. It
lasted about an hour and it was a very
positive call. The focus was mainly um
on the trade deal that we are working on
with China and those relations and how
they are moving in a positive direction.
And the president and President Xi
discussed continuing to stay in
correspondence.
>> Here's the latest. President Trump
saying his call with Chinese President
Xi went well. The two leaders now
planning in-person meetings next year.
Bloomberg's Mika Ser joins us now. Ma,
what was the understanding of what was
discussed in that hour-long phone call
between Xi and Trump?
>> Yeah. So the president and uh the the
Chinese president spoke for roughly an
hour largely focused on trade and uh
trade negotiations particularly around
soybeans and how you know the uh chi
China is impacting US farmers as well.
So that was a large focus of the call.
Uh but the two also touched on Ukraine
Russia war briefly but I know that um
you know there's been significant steps
taken with the two promising to see each
other in person uh next year. Ma, the
two readouts, whether it was from China
or from the US, were vastly different.
The one from the US was talking about
trade as well as a little smattering of
Ukraine, Russia. The one from China
really focused on Taiwan. Can you talk a
little bit about that huge difference
between the two readouts?
Yeah, I think that's really interesting
and I think I do think that um there's
going to be tension around Taiwan. I
know that that's a big priority for the
administration, but I also think that uh
President Trump really wants to have a
good relationship with China. I think
that it's um you know really different
from previous administrations in the way
that he negotiates with countries
considered to be US adversarial to the
US. Um so you know there's going to be a
lot going on and a lot of reaction from
China hawks as well in terms of what's
going to happen particularly around
Taiwan.
>> Mika Solner of Bloomberg, thank you so
much for that. Peter Sheer of Academy
Securities is still with us. Uh Mr.
Proac, let's put that hat on because
ultimately this really does go down to
what is your takeaway? Does this have
more consequences potentially for
Ukraine, Russia or potentially for
Taiwan?
>> I think probably more for Taiwan. So
when we're looking at this and again I
work with um 30 retired generals and
admirals, a couple CIA people. So we
spend a lot of time on where this is all
playing out and I think as we're having
conversation with clients, we're
reminding one X said he wants his
military to be ready by 2027. It's not a
sign that he's going to do anything in
2027, but we've always thought what's
going to happen is there's going to be a
multiple, you know, application of the
levers of powers. The levers of power
are diplomacy, information, military,
and economics. So, the dime framework, I
think they're going to put so much
pressure on Taiwan that Taiwan may
eventually just say enough's enough. And
we are seeing the US pivot a little bit
away from the kind of this global, you
know, policemen of the world to really
focused on domestic, right? North south,
the Monroe doctrine seems to be taking
place again, right? we move the Ford
into the the aircraft carrier into the
Caribbean. So there's this big domestic
focus. So I think there is some risk
that Taiwan feels a little bit maybe
left out, a little bit nervous and when
we look at trade negotiations right now,
the two things that I think China has
some power over us are still the
processed and refined rarest and
critical minerals. So on ProSac, I think
we are trying to do a lot of that. I am
convinced that this administration from
some talks as well. One, we want to
produce the rarest and critical
minerals, but really we want to make
sure we can process and refine them to
break that lock that China has us on us.
We control the chips. We control the
best quality chips. Again, maybe now we
throw the TPUs into that. Those are
things China wants. At the same time,
China controls a little bit the ability
for Taiwan to ship things. So far, China
has not done anything, but they do have
this very, very large maritime militia.
They've used it in the past in little
incidents, but they could put this to
work. It's largely shipping vessels.
They have larger vessels within that and
they would just disperse themselves in
such a way that it would slow shipping
down. They would throw logs off back.
They would throw knits nets trying to
you know foul propellers. So they could
do a lot if they really want to push on
us against Taiwan. So I don't know where
this is all headed but I it feels a
little bit pars and parcel where we're
focusing a little bit more north south
um Monroe doctrine and maybe China has a
little bit more control in that region.
Where does that leave someone like Japan
who has been leaning on the US alliance
in their current heightened tensions
with China after the prime minister made
those off-the- cuff remarks that they
would support or take action if China
had military action against Taiwan?
>> I think it leaves everyone a little bit
questioning what is our mission, right?
The Biden administration was very clear
that we would support Taiwan. Trump has
not been clear so far. Um and our
official doctrine before Biden had
always been ambiguity, right? So
strategic ambiguity has been a part of
this. The one thing to me it comes back
and we've been talking to clients about
this for four years and people used to
kind of roll their eyes at us and now I
think they're listening is shipping. You
have to diversify your supply chains
along shipping routes. You cannot be
dependent on one shipping lane. So
Thailand and Vietnam, you're not
diversified. They're going through the
same place, maybe even South Korea. So I
think this is a kind of a huge wakeup
call that everyone has to look at
shipping as a bigger risk than we ever
have in the past and say, "Hey, what
happens if and maybe it never happens.
Maybe we go on living peacefully and we
have these great economic deals that
allow it. I I think we have to prepare
for more and more delobalization and
more and more risk.
>> That's so interesting you say that
because I've had conversations with
private equity executives who have
companies, lots of them, that need to
deal with supply chain issues and
they've said, "We've done such a good
job since Trump came in as president
because we've de-risked from China and
now we're in South Asia." To your point,
we're in Vietnam. We're in these places
that still might feel blowback should
there be a larger scale conflict. Are
there other options? Is the supply chain
resilient enough to completely move away
from that region even if it's not China?
>> No, but I think you can diversify. You
can have some there, you can have some
other reasons because you are going to
want to try and sell into that region,
right? India is a huge growth story.
There's all sorts of opportunities. So,
you want to be there, but I think you
want to look at South and Central
America. What's going on there, right?
Whatever happens, um, you know, how do
we do better with Brazil? So far,
Brazil's been tough. We are working
closely, I think, with Argentina. So, I
think there's going to be a lot of
opportunities in that north south. And
again, you know, keep coming back. And
lots of things I've learned not being
military, but you know, they talk about
at Academy Securities is the tyranny of
distance. So in war, it is really hard
to fight a war if you're far away. If
you look at where Guam is relative to um
uh Taipei or Taiwan, it is a very far
distance. It's going to be hard for us
even when we try and do something to
support that relative to what China,
they have the same problem when you look
at Central and South America. And let's
not forget the first place Mark Rubio
went was the Panama Canal. That has
never really happened in our history,
right? the you know secretary of defense
or sorry secretary almost always goes to
the UK he went to Panama Canal so there
is something shifting in this
administration so I have paid close
attention to that and if you want to be
where the US government's going to
protect you and do the most I think it's
pretty clear to me you want to be edging
or favoring North and Central and South
America over Asia
>> 5 years ago when the pandemic was raging
everyone was talking about the
deglobalization and this idea that you
had to built in sort of inefficiency in
your supply chain to create redundancy
ies it was going to be inflationary. Now
we're not talking about inflation. We're
talking about disinflation from
artificial intelligence even as we see
an acceleration of this trend of being
more regional. Is there still an
inflationary overlay to this that's the
reverse of what globalization provided?
>> I think there is as it comes online.
There is going to be some pressure on
commodity prices if we really start
building these factories. If we build
out the energy production that we need
or electricity production we are going
to see levels of inflation that have
been higher. I think it's persistent say
that 2 and a half to 3 and a half% it's
not going to get out of control but over
time we've also built a much more secure
system I think costs will go down over
time right if you're not shipping things
long ways again I just keep coming back
to I really believe this kind of concept
of production for security is going to
replace kind of ESG when we're thinking
about sustainability it's going to be
much more like what do we need at the
base and this is going to sound wonky
but you know I look at Maso's hierarchy
of needs I always think that's probably
the most useful course I took was psych
101 but it talks about you basically
need shelter, you need food and all
those things before you can move up to
self-actualization. And we were kind of
at the self-actualization what we would
like. Oh, I'd love to do this. I'd like
to do these things. And then we realized
we had our base eroded. We cannot
produce the things that we need. How can
you be safe or sustainable if you're not
making some level of your basic
necessities? So, I think that's where we
are headed. I think the government's the
first to see it. I think capital is
already starting to flow into it. So,
capital is going to be second.
Corporations are going to adopt it. And
I think Europe's going to start falling.
I think Europe's going to fight it a bit
more tooth and nail, but ultimately
you're going to get dragged into this
where you have to produce your basic
necessities or some portion of it
yourself and work with close allies
because you cannot just rely on China to
be your friend.
>> Peter Shear, thank you so much for being
with us. Always really illuminating.
Peter Sheer of Academy Securities and
this kind of goes to the heart of the
issue. I remember a year ago uh when
Apac was being held in Peru and there
was a real question over who is going to
win the war right now. Is it going to be
China or is it going to be the United
States for one of the most important
reserves of copper of a pretty much a
ton of minerals that are absolutely
essential to our modern world?
>> I remember when you were there and the
reporting you did was China is so
present at this conference. They're
present there. They're present in
Africa. What does the US do about that?
To Peter's point, as they increased
their reliance on those beneath us, to
the south of us, there were Chinese
flags. Xi came. He was going down the
boulevard. Everything stopped. Real
difference in tone. Coming up, we're
going to be talking more about the
emerging markets as well as artificial
intelligence with Ed Aluseni of Colombia
Thread Needle who thinks that maybe AI
productivity gains are overstated.
We are heading into the open about 3
hours away right now. What we see in the
morning futures is lower across the
board after the biggest one-day gain
going back 6 weeks. NASDAQ leading the
charge lower down 3 ten of a percent
despite the gains that we're seeing on
the likes of Alphabet. What you are
seeing yesterday was the biggest two-day
pop for both the S&P and NASDAQ going
back to May. Optimism around potentially
Fed rate cuts. Take a look at twos,
tens, and 30s. You do see a bit of that
optimism fading, but definitely below
where they were yesterday. 2-year yield
is getting a bid after we heard from
Mary Daly that she was inclined to cut
rates next month. She is not a voting
member. Nonetheless, she tends to work
with Jay Powell and tends to agree with
him. John Williams also on debt for a
cut. I am the one who's actually
watching Danny and counting each of
these. It looks like it's pretty evenly
split right now with a lot of undecideds
and a lot of people are saying this is
up to Jay Powell to decide whether or
not this is a Fed cut or a Fed hold.
which is why Mary Daly was so important
because to your point she's very closely
aligned with him. It's a very different
environment. We've moved away from
consensus building. And I also think
interesting in that Mary Dailyaly
article uh interview with the journal
where she said this is a good thing.
This is a healthy thing. You don't want
group think. The question will be
whether that protects the Fed or exposes
them in an era where you have a Trump
pick at the top of the helm. Yeah. and
whether it gives any kind of guidance at
a time where the guidance aspect is very
much part of monetary policy
transmission which is a key question
right now. We are 3 hours away from the
cash open. Let's get some morning movers
with Vonnie Quinn. Bonnie, well Lisa, it
is all about AI today. So let's take a
look at these companies because you've
been talking about it already this
morning. TPUs versus GPUs. Remember
Nvidia was great at making those
graphics processing units. Well, now
Meta is in talks apparently according to
the information to buy billions of
dollars worth of TPUs from Google, the
Alphabet company. Obviously, that could
have an impact on Nvidia's going
forward. Now, is this the very very
beginning of maybe what looks like the
end of dominance for Nvidia? Maybe.
We'll see. But the shares are definitely
suffering. Pre-market down 4%. AMD also
along with it down 3 and a.5% and the
Google parents up more than 4%. Let's
switch it up because we are now looking
at Alibaba. Just reporting this morning,
we were talking about Quen yesterday and
the relaunch of all of its AI tools that
it's pushed into that its rivalry with
Tencent and with BYU well paying off
apparently in the quarter. The ADR is up
4 and a.5% overall revenue was up 5% but
its cloud intelligence revenue up 34%.
Massive growth in that revenue in the
quarter. And then let's take a look at
SanDisk because you might think of it.
It's a memory chip company. We all
remember carrying around those thumb
drives and so on. But this is also
really an AI story. This was bought by
Western Digital back in 2016. Spun out
this February up 530% year to date since
it was spun out. Up another 2% because
it is now joining the S&P 500. And
that's been giving the shares a boost.
But obviously there has to be an AI
portion to this. It's in talks for the
buildout of largecale data centers as
well. So that's uh helping this memory
tip maker today.
>> Thank you so much, Bonnie. On our radar
this morning, tensions rising between
China and Japan over the status of
Taiwan. President Donald Trump holding
backtoback calls with the leaders of
both countries. Any sign of the US
aligning with Japan could end up
derailing its trade truce with China.
Meanwhile, Nvidia under pressure
following a report that Meadow is in
talks to spend mill billions on Google's
AI chips. Millions, billions, trillions.
The information reporting meta plans to
use Google's tensor processing units in
data centers beginning in 2027. And real
quick, TPU versus GPU. Danny, it is I
wish I brought my PowerPoint with me.
Okay. TPU is Google's chips. They're
specifically designed to do the tasks of
Google's cloud. So, they're very
efficient both in terms of ability to
get work done and energy versus Nvidia's
GPUs, which were originally built as
graphics processors. So, they do more
tasks, but a little bit more clunky,
take up more energy. So you could say
Google's better. The issue is is there's
a lot of locked in syndrome. It's really
hard to change cloud providers because
so many people already use those types
of data centers with NVIDIA chips. It
makes it harder to transfer to Google's.
There is this one-two punch and it comes
to something we were discussing
yesterday with OpenAI and this question
of whether Google could potentially
supersede it in terms of Gemini 3 and
some of its capabilities. This next
story about Nvidia versus Google and the
idea of Google selling chips to Meta
just reiterates this feeling of
disruption and this ongoing sense that
the story that we're seeing right now in
AI is not the full story. It is not the
end of the story. This is just the
beginning and we're not really seeing
the full iteration. And it's still a
market you'd have to argue that hasn't
decided who the winner is. You could do
the Dan Eyes thing. He's just put out a
note with his top AI picks. It's it's
kind of literally all of them. So that
is one bet and one way you could do it.
But if anything, it's a market that is
more discerning. And again, I think
Alphabet coming in as a challenger. So
interesting because they have so many
corporate relationships. They have
better brand power than OpenAI does. So
who's to say if they can get people to
switch over that they're not going to be
the ultimate winner?
>> Yeah. And just to add on to this,
SoftBank shares tumbling to a two and a
half month low with investor concerns
really coming out after open AAI uh with
respect to potentially Alphabet's Gemini
3 superseding open AAI which is part of
the reason why uh people are wondering
what is this iteration going to look
like. Let's stick with AI. Ed al-
Husseini of Columbia Thread Noodle
casting doubt on the so-called
productivity boom writing AI will lead
to an acceleration in automation which
has been a central feature of economic
growth. AI will have no impact on
aggregate economic productivity. Ed
joins us now with that bold statement.
Ed, why do you think that that's the
case given the fact that so many people
are saying that is when this will start
to pay off? That is when this will be
disinflationary and not necessarily just
the investment in nuts and bolts in the
physical world.
>> Yeah, absolutely. Look, we we've seen
these waves before. The point I wanted
to make is it's really difficult to
translate technological innovation,
which we've seen pretty much
continuously over the course of the past
40 years, into aggregate economic
productivity. That's extraordinarily
difficult. It really requires us to re
reorganize how we make economic widgets.
>> So, at this point, you're saying that
there are implications for the fixed
income world in terms of the ultimate
payoff, right? because it comes to not
only the corporate debt market that's
been fueling and funding a lot of this
but also it goes down to the expected
inflation rate and just what kind of
growth you can see on the heels of AI.
So where do you think the biggest
misunderstanding really is right now?
>> Yeah, I mean part of the problem is
we're channeling an extraordinary amount
of savings now into the AI thematic.
It's going to cannibalize to some extent
the capital that's available to other
parts of the economy including the
treasury market. We're in the early
stages of this. The AI theme has just
come to the investment grade market
wholesale. It will be with us for a
number of years, no doubt. But one of
the risks is it starts to lift yields
across the board and starts to make the
cost of capital more expensive for other
companies. That ultimately could be a
drag on growth down the line. This is a
real crowding out because not only in
capital but in manufacturing capacity,
the way that energy is used too. So
wouldn't that be a healthy thing if all
of a sudden we've decided we've gone so
too far and AI backs up and the spending
on AI backs up? Does that open up other
parts of the economy to make use of this
capital, make use of the energy, make
use of America's manufacturing capacity?
>> Yeah, eventually that could very well be
the story. Um, we've seen this happen in
other parts of the world. China is a
fantastic example of this. It's gone too
far. We're now seeing deflation,
outright deflation because of that
capacity in China. It's very early in
the story, but one of the risks is we've
invested an extraordinary amount of
capital, some starting with a T at this
point in in the AI thematic, and some of
that capital either depreciates rapidly
or is stranded and doesn't contribute to
economic growth. What happens to private
asset players who've all all started to
pour money in this? A lot of the
conversation there is we're not taking
AI risk, we're taking meta risk, we're
taking oracle credit risk. If what
you're talking about that corporate bond
markets also start to feel some of the
pain, what does that do to this entire
ecosystem of funding?
>> Yeah, it's it's quite vulnerable. Let me
say this, the the good news is we're
starting with corporate balance sheets
that that are extraordinarily strong.
These are highquality, high-grade uh
issuers. the corporate bond market,
particularly the investment grade market
was, you know, practically invented for
this. It's there to fund these themes.
So, it's going to be a while until we
get to a point where it starts to to
degrade and we see whether it has an
impact on earnings. Uh, but the fact
that the story is so deeply
interconnected is definitely a v
vulnerability that's not a new theme,
but it's going to be with us for some
time.
>> So, how much of a liability do you think
this is for the Treasury market?
>> A little bit. And again, the good news
is we're um sort of focused on the
narcissism, small differences. What is
the Fed going to do in a couple of
weeks? Uh the AI theme doesn't affect
that in any meaningful way. One of the
core questions for the Fed in the next
couple of years is should we assume the
way Greenspan did in the mid '90s that
productivity is rising? That's a license
to keep monetary policy tighter than it
would have been otherwise.
If they make a mistake, and look,
Greenspan got lucky and he got it right.
But if we make a mistake, that leads to
lower growth, that leads to tighter
policy, that leads to lower inflation in
the coming years. And that's going to be
a really really interesting um debate in
in in both 2026 and beyond. If this does
lead to greater weakness and potentially
overly tight financial conditions, at
least for the rest of America or the
rest of corporate America that hasn't
experienced the AI boom, are you
expecting this to be essentially uh
disinflationary for the wrong reasons?
Right? The idea that it could actually
slow growth and end up in a situation
where the corporate debt issuance really
suffers because the growth just isn't
there to really fuel the returns and the
profits in an ongoing way.
>> Yeah. Let me start with with the second
part of the question. So if productivity
does not materialize, in other words,
productivity is very concentrated in
parts of the economy that potentially
deliver earnings to these companies,
it's fine. If productivity uh becomes
more diffused and the economy as a whole
starts to lift, that's a license for
again higher interest rates across the
board. That's a license for a healthier
growth story. That's something we saw in
the mid90s through the mid200s. great
outcomes in terms of inflation, fiscal,
interest rate stability and so on.
The challenge for the Fed is again if we
make the wrong assumption in the short
term and we put that higher productivity
story into our uh strategy at the
moment, you could make a much stronger
case for tighter policy and that that
would be a mistake at the stage.
>> So if that's the case, what's your
highest conviction right now heading
into your end into 2026?
>> Highest con with respect to interest
rates? Look, I think we have a starting
level of real yields, inflation adjusted
yields across the board that are still
quite healthy. At the same time, when
you look at the corporate debt market
where we're financing and underwriting
this AI story, corporate spreads are
extraordinarily tight. There's a lot
more room for that those spreads to
widen and there's a lot more room for
real interest rate inflationadjusted
yields to come down in the course of the
next 12 to 18 months.
>> What would it take for spreads to widen
though? because this is a market that's
flushed with cash looking to put it to
work and it feels like every single
auction, every single debt issuance that
there is so much demand that spreads
even when they widen are widening to
like I don't know 70 basis like nothing
crazy still even when you do see
widening.
>> Absolutely. And the the the appropriate
answer is I have no idea. Uh all I know
is at the moment investors are not being
compensated for a lot of the risks that
they are taking particularly in weaker
balance sheets. How quickly those
balance sheets degrade ultimately is
going to be the key part of that
narrative for next year. And then most
importantly we need a shock to our
beliefs. That's what always happens.
There are deep stories that are embedded
in the way we price uh these spreads.
There are deep stories around the AI
thematic, for example, that are being
embedded in how we price assets in the
economy. Shocks to stories like that
ultimately are what reorient credit
spreads.
>> I think that we've had enough shocks for
this year, but we could have more and
that's what Al Susini of Columbia Thread
needle is laying it. Ed, uh, thank you
so much for being with us. Have a
wonderful Thanksgiving. Right now, let's
get you an update on stories else for
this morning. Here's your Bloomberg
brief, the Vonyi Gwen. Vonyi,
>> Lisa, thank you. UK Chancellor Rachel
Ree is getting ready to deliver her
autumn budget tomorrow. Sources telling
us here at Bloomberg she will announce
plans to slash the amount Britons can
save in their tax-free cash ISAs each
year by nearly $16,000.
The decision is part of Reeves's push to
get households to invest more in UK
stocks.
Apollo Global Management CEO Mark Rowan
saying people have quote lost their
minds over private credit fears. Rowan
rejecting the notion that adding private
assets to retirement and insurance
portfolios could pose a systemic risk.
According to the Apollo executive, most
private credit held by insurers and by
pension fund buyers is rated investment
grade.
Rare layoffs taking place at Apple.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg,
the iPhone maker has eliminated dozens
of roles in its sales organization in a
bid to streamline the way it offers
products to businesses. The effective
positions include account managers and
staff who operate Apple's briefing
centers and product demonstrations. And
that is your Bloomberg brief. Lisa,
thank you so much Bonnie. Up next,
looking for the edge in trade talks.
>> I think the question that we are
negotiating is how to do things bigger
and better together between our two
great economies.
>> Former senior White House trade adviser
Kellyanne Shaw joining us next. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance. Good morning.
less than 3 hours away from the opening
bell. You can see a little bit of a
rebound from the earlier lows in
futures. future softer across the board,
down about 210 of a percent for S&P, but
you can see a bit of just sort of
meandering after yesterday's rally.
Yields marginally higher on the long
end, lower on the front end, 4.03% on
the 10-year. Take a look at these retail
names. We are getting some earnings this
morning. We're getting uh Kohl's, Dixs,
Best Buy, Abberrompie, and Fitch, Dell,
HP. Just moments ago, we got Burlington
uh stores, which is a discounted
retailer. And Danny, it did seem to be a
beat, which is again sort of this
interesting question of is a beat on
some of these discount retailers a good
thing for the US consumer or one that
potentially belies a little bit of
concern and choicefulness is the award
of the day supposed to be. You add that
and then you add Walmart doing better,
getting higher income consumers coming
down. Maybe it's not a great thing, but
I have to say expectations clearly were
very high for Burlington. Shares are
down very sharply. And I wonder if it
has to do not with what they're saying
are great trends, but the fact that
their third quarter comp sales were much
less than expected, about half the rate
that they expected. Maybe they didn't
raise things enough. So, it's one of
these companies that people are like,
"Yeah, you're a discounter. We know
you're doing well, and if you don't show
up and raise things more than you have,
we're going to punish you." Yeah.
Revenue missing. They did say that
traffic to our stores fell off
significantly after the back to school
period driven by unseasonably warm
temperatures in our major markets. This
comes after some discussion over
hurricane season when it comes to the
Lowe's, the Home Depots of the world.
We'll be watching out for other retailer
earnings. This is a forward-looking read
on what we might expect during this
holiday season. Under surveillance this
morning, looking for the edge in trade
talks. I think the question that we are
negotiating is how to make the deal
bigger, how to make it stronger, how to
make it more inclusive, how to bring in
these digital, you know, markets act and
try to improve that for digital America,
how to maybe do steel and aluminum and
how to include that, how to do things
bigger and better together between our
two great economies.
>> Here's the latest talks underway to
preserve trade deals reached earlier
this year. Our former senior White House
trade adviser Kellyanne Shaw writing the
d taunt between the US and China is
continuing to hold and I expected to
through New Year's. I am increasingly
skeptical about the durability of the US
EU trade deal. Kellyanne joins us now.
Thank you so much for being with us.
Kellyanne, let's just first talk about
what you make of the idea of negotiating
a deal for the EU and the US that
supposedly was already set in stone.
>> Yeah, good morning. Thanks so much for
having me on. This is why I'm so
skeptical about this deal and frankly
watching it very very closely. The
United States and Europe announced back
in July that they had agreed on a
package of mutual concessions including
tariff cuts going both ways. The US
implemented that going all the way back
to August 1st. The EU has only
introduced its legislation with no real
hope of even passing it in the short
term. So the EU has yet to cut a single
tariff line. Now the US is in Brussels.
Um, you have Ambassador Greer as well as
Secretary LetNick who are there talking
to their counterparts. What seems to be
on the table is a potential deal on
steel in exchange for concessions on the
digital single market, on uh the DMA, on
some of these digital regulations. But
the EU has said that they're not budging
on that. So, I don't expect the US to
budge on steel and aluminum either,
which means we have an impass. And I
think as soon as the president starts to
connect with the fact that the EU hasn't
cut a single tariff line, that's going
to spell some serious trouble for this
relationship.
>> That relationship has been uh afraid for
quite a while. There are ongoing
questions also about the US and China.
And I think that right now more people
are focused on that just simply because
of how essential trade is between these
two economies, particularly when it
comes to rare earth minerals and a
couple other products. I'm just
wondering what you make of the phone
call between President Trump and
President Xi and this idea of a visit
coming in April.
>> Yeah, this was a really interesting
conversation. It wasn't interesting so
far as the two leaders spoke. They speak
all the time. It's not unusual to follow
up with a successful meeting and a deal
that is being implemented to touch base
to talk about the trade issues to talk
about China soybean purchases, wheat
purchases and other commitments that are
coming due. But what I found so
interesting were the competing readouts
and one in which China really rushed to
get out. The president didn't even give
his own readout for several hours later.
China's was almost exclusively focused
on this issue of Taiwan on the
importance of Taiwan saying the US had
acknowledged the importance talking
about its uh criticality for the
postworld international order. While the
US readout didn't mention Taiwan at all.
It was focused on the trade deal,
focused on Ukraine. And so it's this he
said, she said, what actually happened
in this call mystery. Now, of course,
there are no transcripts available to
the public about what happens in these
behind-the-scen phone calls. But what is
interesting is the narrative that both
sides are laying out. And I think what
is clear is what's on China's mind right
now. I think the president's focused on
this trade deal, but when the president
does go visit President Xi in April, I
have no doubt that Taiwan is likely to
be on the agenda, at least from China's
perspective. the the fact that Taiwan
wasn't mentioned by President Trump, Ke
Kellyenne, does that say anything about
the White House's willingness to step in
should there be military action from
China to Taiwan?
I certainly wouldn't read that into an
omission. I think from the US
perspective, this call was really about
checking in on the trade deal,
discussions around what's happening in
Ukraine. The administration has said
several times over the past few months
that there's no end to the Ukraine. uh
Russia war without China's active
participation. So I do think that those
are the things that are likely on the
administration's mind right now. I think
what is clear based on uh what is
happening between China and Japan right
now. Um the concern over Taiwan is
really this messaging campaign that
we're seeing from China. This seemed to
me more about a race to win the
narrative versus what actually happened
in the call. And I think that's why
you're seeing the US just not address
it. I I was going to say in terms of
competing narratives, you also had the
Japanese prime minister say that she
received a call right after that China
US call from the president, but we
didn't really hear about it from the
side of the US. Kellyanne, what do you
make of that?
>> Yeah, clearly there is a tremendous
amount of tension right now between
Japan and China. China's threatening to
cut flights. Uh there is a huge
diplomatic row right now over the prime
minister's comments about the
existential threat to Japan of any sort
of military incursion by China into
Taiwan. I think what the United States
president is showing is solidarity with
the prime minister. I think this is
about saying that we are with you. We
stand with our ally. I don't think the
president needed to issue any sort of
statement to make that point. The fact
that that phone call happened was the
message. And so I do think that the
United States and Japan are united. Um
but again, this issue of Taiwan is
increasingly on President Xi's mind and
I think this will be a real point of
tension, particularly going into those
April meetings and I expect President Xi
to try to squeeze the president for
something on Taiwan and that's when
we'll see what the US's real position is
here. Kellyanne, how much is it a tit
for tat this idea that if the US does
shift away from hard Taiwan hardcore
rhetoric around Taiwan that China will
help with the Russia Ukraine war and
potentially bringing an end to it
sooner? Look, I I think that China is
likely to use all of its leverage points
in terms of trying to push issues that
are so important to it and Taiwan is
issue number one in terms of uh the uh
things that President Xi wants to do.
But look, I I do think that um the US
position is strategic ambiguity. I don't
think that the fact that the president
hasn't departed from that or at least
said anything from that indicates a
different pivot point in US policy. But
again, the rubber is really going to
meet the road come April when I fully
expect President Xi to push the
president on this issue and then again
we'll see u what the result is. But but
the US position as far as I'm aware has
not changed. Um I think strategic
ambiguity continues to be the the US
view.
>> Former senior White House trade adviser
Kelly Shaw, thank you so much for being
with us. Definitely the two different
readouts were notable given the idea
that people were wondering what exactly
is this phone call and what exactly will
this meeting be in April,
>> right? And what did President Trump say
about Taiwan? What was his response? Cuz
the Chinese angle was very clear to
them. It's a matter of sovereignty. And
for the White House's response, just
question marks at this.
>> Yeah. And question marks around AI and
just how much the US was willing to sell
chips into China. Coming up next, John
Bilton of JP Morgan Asset Management,
Janette Lowe of Strategus, Lauren Murphy
of Wells Fargo, and Samantha Dart of
Goldman Sachs as we get retail earnings
as we parse through the day ahead with
Google very much front and focus.
What I am a little bit worried about is
that the Fed is kind of dragging its
feet. It's sort of confusing what you're
hearing out of the Federal Reserve.
>> You might not want to hold the Fed to
the same standard as in normal times.
>> It's certainly a much more rowdy and
disorderly process from the Fed than
what we're accustomed to.
>> We will get three rate cuts over the
next 12 months, but December is still a
tossup.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
Ann Marie Hordern. Good morning. Welcome
back to Bloomberg Surveillance. Stocks
meandering after the biggest two-day pop
since May. Taking some heat out of that
today in futures. Retail sales trickling
out for the likes of Burlington earlier.
Kohl's and Dick Sporting Goods as the
holiday shopping season kicks off with
traders awaiting September retail sales
data in about 90 minutes time. And
Alphabet becoming the US's third most
valuable company approaching $4 trillion
market capitalization as it presents
stiff competition to both OpenAI and
Nvidia. Danny, this question of
disruption very much roing the
artificial intelligence space.
>> It does. There is so much churn
underneath the surface as the market
hasn't fully decided on who's the
winner. We're going from the yay,
everybody's a winner that does anything
with AI and spends money to, hey, maybe
not everybody's going to be okay. But
one of the interesting things is to
despite how volatile that sort of back
and forth has been, it is the Fed that's
dictating the overall directions of
markets. It was yesterday in hopes of a
cut that was lifting us up. weeks before
it was doubts of a cut that was pushing
us down.
>> Yeah. And this is really going to the
bifurcation that you're seeing in the
market. So even though we did just see
the biggest two-day pop going back to
May, there was again that bifurcation,
this tale of two halves within the
market with about half the market not
participating. The consumerf facing
stocks not exactly rallying. You saw for
example Carnival shares uh falling quite
considerably. And it goes to this
question, how long can the AI trade
continue unless you get participation of
the rest of the economy? And is the Fed
too late to turn around the weakness
that we've seen in certain pockets akin
to what we were hearing yesterday from
Neil Data. I also think that's why what
El L eludeni told us from thread needle
was so interesting because the idea that
a productivity boom is going to come to
the rest of this market and to save us
even if AI spending slows. He cast doubt
on that and that's a real problem for
those that say yes the AI trade but all
these other companies are benefiting
from it too. what happens if they don't
and what happens if that happens at the
same time of a slowing consumer.
Meanwhile, this is the shopping season
and that's the reason why the retail
earnings have been so interesting. We
saw from Burlington uh they did raise
their fullear forecast still taking a
beating on comp sales. Kohl's just take
a look at that jumping 15% after their
comp sales beat estimates in the third
quarter. This is a company that just had
a new CEO come in, but those uh shares
really rallying after seeing fullear
operating margin uh significantly above
where it previously expected and just
beats pretty much across the board.
Danny, this to me is really interesting.
It is fascinating. And the margin story,
which you just pointed to again, this is
a sector that we assumed margins would
be really bad. We assumed that they'd be
paying more and they'd have to move it
along to the consumer. That's not what's
playing out. They're finding clearly
efficiencies from somewhere else. And
for a company like Kohl's that has been
in such need of a turnaround plan, the
idea that they're able to do it in this
environment with a new CEO at the helm
again is getting greatly rewarded by
this market. The word efficiency keeps
coming back to that and we will keep
looking at that. Right now the
efficiency in market is just slightly
lower after yesterday's rally. You're
seeing equity futures lower by about uh
it was 210 of a percent reprising some
of that as we do get some of these
earnings now basically unchanged. We are
seeing unchanged on the 10-year. Wow.
This is not a very active board today.
Coming up this hour, John Bilton of JP
Morgan Asset Management as investors
maybe tap the brakes, maybe just take a
pre-Thanksgiving pause. Janette Lowe of
Strategus as Ukraine peace talks gain
momentum and Samantha Dart of Goldman
Sachs on why energy is the key to
winning the AI race. We begin this hour
with stocks sort of meandering following
yesterday's techfueled rally. John
Bilton of JP Morgan Asset Management
seeing potential for positive returns,
writing, "The recent pullback is
presenting a buying opportunity and we
feel the gloomy narrative on tech is
somewhat overdone." John joins us now.
John, thank you so much for being here.
I could use a little bit of uh
excitement and optimism this morning.
I'm wondering why you think that any
kind of rally is going to come on the
heels of people watching the AI space
and gaining enthusiasm about it again
rather than focusing on the
transformation and the competitive
landscape that we're seeing certainly on
a morning like this one.
>> Well, I think that we've got to remember
what tech actually is. It's about
innovation. It's about the next new idea
and it's about continually challenging
itself. Think back to I think it was
February time when of course we had Deep
Seek suddenly appeared on the horizon
and everyone thought, "Oh my goodness,
what does this mean for us tech? Yeah,
it's all over. Was it? Absolutely not.
We got the strongest rally out of tech
that we've seen in an awfully long time
from April onwards. So, I think seeing
what we're beginning to see is something
of a maturation. We're seeing
competition begin to come in. You know,
we're seeing different opportunities
using different technologies for
different per purposes, etc. There's a
lot of money going in this year's or
this third quarter's results from the
tech leaders show huge capital spending
commitments which will continue to boost
the investment share.
open question on productivity longer
term. You know, we've looked at this in
our long-term capital market assumptions
work. We do feel that productivity is
set to gain, but it's a long burn. It
requires the investment first. And so,
we think that there's reasons to be
positive and we think that with this
cycle of investment happening now,
there's reasons that we will see dips
board. Is there enough cash and enough
investor enthusiasm to supersede any
kind of hiccup that would come from say
just theoretically uh a company that's
worth about $500 billion and is private
that has a lot of loans that's sort of
trying to grow into the image that have
has for itself open AAI uh if if it you
do get some sort of blow up of one of
these companies that has been more
speculative. Well, look, if take a step
back from the individual companies
themselves, there's a lot of capital in
motion right now. There will probably be
winners and losers out of that. I'm not
a stock analyst. I wouldn't want to
project as to who's who, but with the
amount of capital being spent, we know
that up to around 80% of total factor
productivity gains typically can be
explained by the upfront investment.
bigger issue we have right now actually
again if we take the long view we know
that the input of labor into um growth
going forward is going to shrink we've
got you know bipartisan support for
clamping down on migration and it's a
global factor by the way it's not just a
US thing so it amplifies the impact of
an aging population so as my colleague
uh Dr. Kelly likes to say, someone who I
know is on this show quite a lot.
Productivity is what happens when you
run out of workers. And guess what? So
we are constructive there, but we're
tracking a chain of events from the
investment being made to the technology
being built to the adoption taking place
and then the full deployment. No prior
tech cycle, mainframe, e-commerce,
mobile, telefan, and now AI has not
gradually broadened out through time.
So, we are optimistic about the overall
technology cycle here and still in the
early stages. We think
>> it's incredibly complicated though. And
I I was joking with Lisa earlier that
like I for some reason spent a huge
chunk of my day yesterday understanding
the differences between TPUs and GPUs.
You say you're not a stock analyst and
you're certainly not a tech specific one
at that. But is there a sort of sense
that in order to be an active investor,
in order to actually understand who are
the winners and losers, you need to have
a technical knowhow that most people
don't have. Does it pay to be hyper
specialized on tech in this kind of
environment?
>> Well, I think the same is true on any
sector. If you get down into the depths,
if you don't know the difference between
an oncology drug and a therapeutic,
you're not going to be a very good
pharmaceutical analyst.
>> But this is a sector that dominates the
market though whereas you can't say the
same for pharma.
>> But fair point, but if we think about
it, you can break it down into the jobs
that tech highly specialized functions
need that real top end cutting edge
innovation. That's where your GPUs are
coming in. TPUs which are much more you
know brute force you can apply a lot of
processing power to a more single
direction I think the ability to be able
to scale and learn fast about what one
is investing in actually funny enough if
you think about it that's an amazing AI
use case so I think what we can see is
how we stratify different uses of AI are
we automating simple tasks are we doing
large model uh modeling of very
unstructured data those are two
different endpoints but just having that
basic understanding of what's leading
where I think is reasonable as a
financial analyst. Anyways,
>> to that point, there was the dream of
agenic AI and super intelligence and
it's something that Sam Alman talked
about Jensen Huang and it's a thing that
really build built up stocks and had
this I don't know if you want to call it
bubble but anyway high valuations
because of this far promise in the
future. Has something changed? Have we
decided that we care less about what's
happening in the future and more about
the here and the now in terms of
profitability and actual use cases of
AI? Well, I think there's a little bit
of both really because I think that we
always want innovation. It's one of the
reasons why we continue to see that the
US carries on dominating global market
capitalization even out 10 to 15 years
from now when we look at the work we've
done in our capital market assumptions.
So that innovation cycle is incredibly
important but at the same time this is
what separates in our mind from the
dotcom era to where we are now. We've
got highquality cash flow generative
companies making investments that
actually have real world gains. And once
more, I'd come back to that point.
Productivity is what happens when you
run out of workers. And that's the
biggest driver to us. It's not the
robots coming for our jobs. It's the
fact that there are fewer of us. And we
still want to be able to sort of develop
processes and growth around that.
>> This is the reason why people are having
such a hard time getting a handle on
what exactly is going on with the
economy during this transformation. It
has a very different kind of time frame.
We're going to be getting ADP uh
payrolls numbers coming up on their
weekly uh at 8:15. At 8:30, we're going
to get backdated stale data from
September. Uh we are getting details
from some of the retailers who are
reporting earnings today. I'm not going
to have you comment on them because I
know you're not a single stock analyst,
but it's been generally a positive read.
It hasn't been gloom and doom. And yet
what we're hearing from a lot of people
is that there is a lot of gloom and doom
and you are seeing that in the
bifurcation of market performance. Do
you think that that is overstated in the
non- tech names or not tech obvious
names? The idea that the consumer really
is a lot weaker than it might seem.
Well, I think there there are
differences in the consumer as you look
across income cohort for instance, but
we know that the dominant piece of uh
retail sales of any sort of activity in
the consumer space is driven by the
upper income brackets. Where we will get
some impact though of course and this is
the delayed um impact of the Fed. We'll
be on gradually lowering those costs for
consumers across the board. We're also
seeing oil prices reasonably stable
which is great for households at the end
of the day. These operate with a lag.
Right now, if we had a very exuberant
consumer, I'd feel much more concerned
about the outlook for the economy. When
you've got the consumer, we've got
consumer sentiment really, really weak
in Europe. 15.3% household savings rate.
It's the highest we've seen outside of
the pandemic. The consumer has actually
a surprising amount of coiled up
sentiment and coiled up savings as we
look around the globe more generally to
put to work. we get big issues a thoring
between Washington and Beijing as we've
seen a little bit of possibly possibly
and we hope perhaps steps towards peace
between Russia and Ukraine as we get
some of these big sort of geopolitical
overhangs working their way through you
know the potential for a pickup in
sentiment could be quite powerful from
the consumer's perspective
>> and a lot of retailers are trying to get
ahead of that and build up their
portfolios. John Bilton, thank you so
much for being with us. Have a wonderful
Thanksgiving if you celebrate. John
Bilton of JP Morgan Asset Management and
we are seeing certainly Cole's shares
absolutely surging now up more than 20%
after those earnings. But what you can
see across all of the earnings is a tale
of different corporate execution and
this question of efficiency, this
question of market share, this question
of which goods they can actually raise
prices on. And Danny, to me, that's the
reason why it is so hard to get a more
macro read from some of these micro
earning reports versus just corporate
strategy to adapt and adjust. It's such
a good point because you've seen it all
throughout earning season. Does the fact
that all of a sudden the fast casual
restaurants are doing really poorly?
Does that mean everybody is doing
poorly, but TJ Maxx is doing well,
Kohl's is doing well, Walmart is doing
well. Is that a good thing or a bad
thing? It is a choose your own adventure
depending on what company you pick and
what narrative you want to build around
it.
>> Just give more protein. That's I think
what we've learned. Anyway, we'll get
into that or we won't get into that.
Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Here's a
Bloomberg brief with Vonnie. Vonyie,
thanks so much. Lisa, thank you.
Tensions rising between China and Japan
over the status of Taiwan. President
Donald Trump holding back-to-back phone
calls with the leaders of both
countries. China's foreign ministry
saying the US initiated the hour-long
call with President Xiinping. Trump then
called Japan's prime minister to
reaffirm their ties. Any sign that the
US is siding with Japan on Taiwan could
jeopardize its trade truce with China.
A federal judge has thrown out the
criminal charges against former FBI
director James Comey and New York
Attorney General Leticia James. The
judge ruling the prosecutor who brought
the cases had been illegally appointed.
And nearly 2 years after the midair
calamity that plunged Boeing into
crisis, the company says it's making
progress in its war against defects at
its 737 jet plant factory. The company's
efforts include weekly meetings where
employees discuss on the job impediments
and irritants.
Boeing says it's seen encouraging
results and is planning to increase 737
output to 60 jets a month. And that is
your Bloomberg brief. Lisa, thank you so
much, Vonnie. Up next, bringing the war
to a close.
>> The idea that the United States of
America is not engaging with both sides
equally in this war to bring it to an
end is a complete and total fallacy.
That could not be further from the
truth. Net low of strategus joins us
next. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
Less than an hour till ADP Tuesday. It
kind of doesn't have the same kind of
ring and yet we are going to get ADP
payrolls data coming out at 8:15. That
might give us a little bit of a current
look at the underlying economy. Right
now stocks doing nothing. Futures
basically unchanged on the S&P. We're
tracing losses from earlier this
morning. We are seeing 10ear yields
marginally higher but lower versus where
they were this time yesterday. 4.03% 03%
and crude just off by about 4/10en of a
percent under surveillance this morning
bringing the war to a close.
The idea that the United States of
America is not engaging with both sides
equally in this war to bring it to an
end is a complete and total fallacy.
That could not be further from the
truth. I have watched as the president
and his team have worked around the
clock overnight with both sides on
endless phone calls, endless meetings to
try to bring this war to a close. Here's
the latest. Peace talks between Russia
and Ukraine gaining momentum. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg, a US
official is meeting a Russian delegation
in Abu Dhabi ahead of President Trump's
Thanksgiving deadline. Bloomberg's Mika
Solner joins us now. Ma, what's your
sense of where we are? It's gotten from
a 28 point now to a 19 point. How close
are we actually getting to some
resolution in this push for a peace
negotiation?
Well, the White House is very adamant to
bringing this war to an end, but they
have softened that Thanksgiving Day
deadline, which is obviously just a
couple of days away. Uh, but I know
that, you know, that they are really
trying to stress and emphasize. We just
heard White House press secretary
Caroline Levit say that they're
negotiating strongly with both sides.
Now, this this is to say the White House
is also facing some criticism saying
that they're playing too much into uh
what Russia wants. So, we're going to
see what they're doing there and they're
trying to work out the work out those
kinks. Now,
>> ma, do we have a sense of what Europe's
role is in trying to negotiate this and
get back on the set stage when it comes
to trying to understand what the
discussions are, who's having
discussions with whom.
>> Yeah, I mean, I think that the White
House says that they're working very
closely uh um you know, trying to keep
everybody in communication. And I know
that there is a consensus that everybody
wants this war to end and I think that
the US is working strongly with European
allies in terms of rebuilding Ukraine,
but right now um you know they're still
negotiating out a lot of this. The deal
keeps changing and shifting and so we're
really going to see what comes but I
know that these talks are ongoing and
the administration believes it's making
strong progress here.
>> Mika Sar, thank you so much for being
with us. Janette Low of Strategus
writing, "It remains a question as to
whether negotiated changes can hold and
if Putin will agree to the ultimate
plan." Janette joins us now. Janette,
what do we know about what's been taken
out of the initial 28 points that could
potentially bring Ukraine closer to
agreeing to this?
>> So, I mean, there's a couple things that
definitely started to push things a
little bit more towards Ukraine's favor
versus Russia's favor. That would be
things like allowing Ukraine's military
to be larger than it was under the
28point plan. Um the potential for it to
still be allowed to enter into NATO at
some point if there is agreement to
allow NATO troops to be in Ukraine but
not on a permanent basis. So those were
some things that allows um Ukraine to
have a little bit more uh stability with
it with regards to its military but then
also having more security guarantees
longer term. So we'll see if that holds.
I think one of the issues has always
been whether or not Putin really will
agree to a deal. I mean, he came to the
Alaska summit, made it seem like there
was going to be progress made with
President Trump, and then basically the
talks went nowhere. So, I think that
remains to be seen. We hadn't seen Putin
specifically say that this would be
something he would agree to even when it
was the original 28 point plan, whereas
there was much more pressure on Ukraine
to actually agree. And it was left to
kind of see then what would happen with
Putin on the other side.
>> Given that after this or as this
negotiation has been going on, we had
the call yesterday between presidents
Trump and she do what role will China
play in this? Do you think that they
will be able to exert pressure on Russia
to accept any sort of deal?
>> You know, it's interesting because I
think one of the things that we've been
watching too is what's been happening in
Venezuela and could that be an effort to
try to put more pressure on Russia to
accept a deal. Um, I think there could
be some pressure with regards to China
to try to get them to get Russia to
accept a deal as well. Um, it also could
be just China watching what's happening.
Maybe they hadn't been involved in these
discussions and wanting to make sure
that they were at the table and kind of
seeing what might be at play with
Ukraine and thinking that there might be
some similar uh tactic that might be
taken with regards to Taiwan since that
obviously was a piece of the
conversation that they held yesterday.
But I do think Trump is really trying to
push Russia to get to a deal. We'll have
to see if that ultimately is successful.
But he does want the war to end. He does
kind of want lower oil prices, getting
that geopolitical premium out of the oil
prices. He probably also wants to
separate Russia and China and having
some those linkages during the war,
breaking those apart a little bit as he
is trying to really um remove the the
strength of China overall. kind of also
focusing on decoupling the US from
China. All of those things are coming
into play here. So, I do think that
ultimately it was probably more still
about trade and Taiwan and issues with
Japan at this point and maybe even less
so about Ukraine.
>> I was going to say when it comes to
trade, does it make any difference that
these Ukrainian negotiations are
happening at the same time that you have
Trade Representative Jameson Greer and
US Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnik in
Brussels trying to negotiate yet again
with the Europeans on trade deals with
the US.
Yeah, I mean it was obviously
interesting that the Europeans were a
little bit caught off guard by the
original 28 point plan. So things are
also within the administration kind of
focused on very separate tracks at the
same time. Things are definitely in
their own lane and then they do have
spillover effects. But obviously this
has been something with regards to the
EU and the US that there has been a
little bit of tension with the Europeans
thinking that with the steel and
aluminum derivative products and things
like that nature that it seems like the
15% tariff rate that they've ultimately
had is not going to hold and is not
going to be as beneficial to them.
They're obviously also looking for other
tariff exemptions, thinking about things
like wine and spirits and pasta. Um, so
there's also that very separate thing,
but I think those I would I would
probably tease apart. I think this is
much more focused on. There was the
effort in Gaza that was relatively
successful. The administration wanted to
take that momentum and put it towards
getting some sort of deal with regards
to Ukraine. Um, and there's obviously
this piece about trying to put a little
bit more pressure on Russia with regards
to oil with Venezuela. Um, and I think
now there's just trying to see if we can
actually get to a deal. But I do think
Putin is probably the bigger question
mark here. There's a poperriyery of
issues here and I'm trying to parse out
how much is cost of living issues, how
much is some sort of domestic win to
celebrate international victories and
how much is an effort to work with
allies and really get some sort of
understanding that can hold. How much of
it do you think is a cost of living
issue that makes the US more amendable
to potentially lowering tariffs or being
more cordial in some of the discussions
in order to at least lower anything that
people pay back home?
Yeah, I mean I think that one thing here
is that the the oil piece even before
this affordability issue has really kind
of come to the four over the past few
months. The oil premium that you know
him trying to say I want to end wars. I
want to lower oil prices. This was
something that Trump pointed out early
on in his administration before he came
in and then early on in the in the
beginning weeks and months. So this has
always kind of been his goal here. Um,
so I think this is less about
affordability and more about getting the
war ended but still having lower oil
prices. The tariff exemptions obviously
to some extent were about lowering um
prices, but the administration had also
flagged this early on. You know, you've
always had Secretary Lucknik talking
about the fact that the US doesn't grow
mangoes and that we'll probably have to
exempt goods like that from the tariffs.
So that is where we have ultimately
ended up. Of course, it's happened as
the conversations about affordability
have really grown. Um, so there is that
component to it. But then the fact that
they've decided to make the exemptions
across the world for all of those goods,
but even if you get some additional um,
exemptions, let's say with Europe, and
there's a cost coming down in some of
those things, it's really not
significantly large. We looked through
all of the tariff exemptions that came
out, and it only really reduced tariffs
on an aggregate basis by 7 billion, and
we still have nearly 380 billion tar
worth of tariffs in place. So, it's
really not going to lower overall
prices. It's really much more target at
specific food items and that
affordability aspect.
>> Janette Low of Stratequez, thank you so
much. Currently, affordability very much
front focus during the retail season and
we've heard from some retailers about
how they're handling it. A real MLY
picture here. I got to say, Danny, I
mean, you look at the performance of
these shares after they report earnings
and it's again, choose your own
adventure. It seems like everything is
as you were saying earlier with some
really uh delivering and some talking
about efficiencies. Dicks potentially
closing some Foot Locker stores
>> and and they're saying that even though
they've boosted their outlook for a
second quarter and shares are being
punished because everybody's looking for
cracks and the fact that they might need
to turn to efficiencies. Maybe that's a
crack for Dick Sporting Goods.
>> And this is a reason why so many people
say this idea that AI made us cut jobs
isn't really the story. It's actually
we're just looking to cut money uh to
cut costs and preserve our margins.
Coming up next, we'll be talking about
that with Lauren Murphy of Wells Fargo
as holiday shopping offers a fresh read
on the consumer. This is blimper
surveillance
about two hours away from the opening
bell and you can see futures just uh
trying to find some kind of direction
after being down as much as 210 of a
percent on the S&P now essentially flat.
Even NASDAQ futures have really
retraced. Yesterday was the biggest one
day pop going back six weeks. biggest
two-day pop for both the S&P and the
NASDAQ going back to May. The Russell
2000 turning around up to ten of a
percent possibly on the heels of some
comments from Fed officials yesterday.
Take a look at twos, tens, and 30s. And
you can see in the bond space,
particularly on the front end, a bid,
and this really comes after we saw San
Francisco Fed President Mary Dailyaly in
an interview with the Wall Street
Journal say she would support a Fed rate
cut next month. She is not a voting
member, but definitely is considered an
ally of Fed chair Jay Powell. There also
has been Chris Waller who wants to go.
Of course, John Williams has also
indicated which is the reason why you
are seeing a bid into that space. Here
are your morning movers with Vonnie
Quinn with two hours away from the cash
open. Well, Lisa, one of the narratives
that's going to dominate today is TPU
versus GPU, right? What are the
switching costs? Would companies want to
even switch? And that's because Apple is
in the news obviously up four and a
quarter%. Beta is in talks, according to
the information, to buy billions of
dollars worth of Google's TPUs. Now, it
could have gone the other way. It could
have gone and bought Nvidia's GPUs. It
didn't. And the question is, are TPUs
better for inference? Are they more
energy efficient? What would it mean
down the road? Does it mean the
beginning of the end of the Nvidia
dominance? It's a big question. So, you
can see Nvidia down about three and a
half% off its lows of the session. AMD
down 3.8% and those Alphabet shares
rising. Let's get to some of the
retailers now because we had many report
today. One of the better stories, Kohl's
up 22%. That stock already up about 12%
this year. So, the interim CEO, Michael
Bender, who was put into the position in
May, has really proven himself in the
third quarter. Definitely stabilizing
Kohl's. He has now been named full CEO.
He is in that position from now on and
today bears him out. So, sales were
still down, but only by 1.7%. The
estimate was for a decline in the third
quarter of 3.9%. And for the full year,
the outlook is now comp sales being down
2 and a half to 3% as opposed to down 3
to 4%. So you can see the ranges are a
lot better. Different story at Dicks
Sporting Goods. So Dicks down about 10%
on the year, down another 8 and a half%
today. It did raise its outlook for a
second straight quarter, citing sales
from existing stores. But consumer
sentiment down in November as we know
and this how does it you know bring Foot
Locker into the equation? Well, CNBC is
saying that it's actually going to sell
some of the existing Foot Locker stores
and so that's one of the parts of this
story. Adjusted earnings per share
missed at $27. The fullear forecast did
get boosted though, but obviously
investors not buying this particular
idiosyncratic retail story. Thank you so
much Vonnie. There is this question of
uh Abberrombie and Fish as well. those
shares popping more than 10% after
reporting better than expected earnings
across the board. We'll get to that uh
in a bit. What you are seeing though is
uh Danny sense that their third quarter
comp sales came in not exactly well.
They came in actually below, but you did
see overall net sales increase and a
sense going forward some commentary
saying people are really uh buying more
strongly heading into the holidays.
>> It it does contrast with what we've
heard elsewhere. To be fair, you've had
Vonnie was just talking about Dick
Sporting Goods trying to close some of
their Foot Locker locations. It speaks
to this moment where if companies do
innovate and Abbercomi and Fitch has
really changed their lineup or you look
at Gap who's leaned into celebrities and
different collaborations that there is
money to be spent. It's a story that's
been evolving for the past few years.
It's a consumer that has money to spend,
but it's choosy which makes it hard to
develop an overall narrative about where
we stand.
>> Yeah, the commentary coming from the
seauite. We achieved three years of
consecutive quarterly sales growth
delivering record third quarter net
sales with 7% growth to last year. The
strong finish to back to school and f
fall seasonal transition very much front
and focus. Meanwhile, spending on other
things is on our radar this morning.
Meta reportedly in talks to use Google's
AI chips and data centers. According to
the information, the agreement would
help establish Google's chips as an
alternative to Nvidia. The deal hinges
on whether the chips demonstrate power,
efficiency, and computing muscle. That
is what Bonnie was talking about with
TPUs and GPUs. Meanwhile, Apollo CEO
Mark Rowan saying, quote, "People have
really just lost their minds when it
comes to concerns over private credit."
Rowan rejecting the idea that adding
private assets to retirement and
insurance portfolios can pose a systemic
risk. Danny, this is what we've heard
from so many of the titans of the
private asset management world.
>> Yeah, because it's really hurt them. I
mean, you look at the share price of
these publicly traded companies of
private credit, private equity, and they
have been really damaged by it. I think
it's a fair argument to make that it's
not systemic. There can't be a run on
the bank with these kind of companies.
But maybe what some of the wobbles do
demonstrate, and Mark Rowan has talked
about this, that we are late cycle
dynamics. So much money has been poured
into the sector. It's no longer a niche
corner of finance because of insurance
money, because of the move into wealth,
and that money has to be put at work.
So, has due diligence softened? Has it
been moved to the wayside? And does that
mean the certain blowups or at least
stress you've seen just does become more
commonplace?
>> So, late cycle in private credit, early
cycle in the economy, early cycle in
some sort of downturn. I'm getting lost
in terms of what inning, what cycle
we're in because I've heard five things
this morning alone, Danny.
>> Yeah, I'm maybe we're just the cycle is
dead. Maybe that's the answer that the
cycle doesn't exist.
>> Well, maybe we'll get some inclination
from US economic data. It is getting
back on track, sort of. Delayed
September PPI and retail sales due this
morning at 8:30 a.m. September PCE now
set to be released on December 5th.
Meanwhile, a slew of results from the
retailers as we've been talking about
continue to give insight into the US
consumer. And sticking with retail just
days away from Black Friday and the
unofficial start of the holiday shopping
season. and Lauren Murphy, retail
finance managing director of Wells
Fargo, writing, "Holiday shelves are
full, but prices may rise in 2026."
Lauren joins us now for more. Lauren,
thank you so much for being with us.
We've been trying to get a read on the
holiday shopping season this morning uh
in an ad hoc way with all of the
earnings reports that have been coming
out. Do you have a better sense of
exactly any consistent themes running
throughout the retailers?
>> Yeah, so I think the good news is
retailers, as I mentioned, are well
stocked. The inventory is on the
shelves. they're ready to meet their
consumer where they're at. I think the
constant theme is just this question of
consumer sentiment and really what is
going to be needed to get that consumer
in traffic in the door this holiday.
>> Lauren, there have been various notes
this morning. One from UBS Security
saying that consumers willingness to
spend has waned and they expect a
mediocre finish to the US holiday
season. Beimo on their survey saying
that consumers are going to raise their
spending on the holidays more moderately
than they have in the past. What are you
seeing? Are you also seeing that
softening around the edges of a consumer
spending this holiday season?
>> Yeah, so Wells Fargo economists uh are
are forecasting that holiday sales will
be between 3 and 4% uh increase over
year-over-year. However, that is not
accounting for inflation. So, I do think
that consumers are seeking out value.
They're seeking out discounts and
they're really making they're really
mindful of their wallet this holiday. A
lot of what we've heard from the
retailers too, Kohl's being one of them
having a really good quarter. Best Buy
another one that's lifted their outlook
because everybody is buying the new
iPhones. Lauren, if there is this
concern, is there a scenario where
people have spent all of this money
because they're concerned about the
future? They're concerned about where
prices go, where employment goes. So
past strength can't necessarily be
indicative of future strength.
>> That's right. Right. This is still the
prime time spending season between
November and December. And we think
retailers did a really good job trying
to keep prices low heading into this
holiday, pulling up forward inventory
purchases ahead of price increases. I
think we're seeing that in the results.
We haven't seen the margin hits that we
were probably anticipating. However,
what we're hearing from our retailers is
that may be coming in in 26, right?
They're trying to hold a line right now.
However, the question is if they're
going to have to increase prices just
because they can't sustain it any
further heading into 26.
>> And this goes to a question a lot of
people have been asking. Have we already
felt the ramifications from the tariff
costs? Have they already been born by a
lot of these companies or are they yet
to come? Are you saying that they're yet
to come?
>> Yeah, I think where what we're hearing
is there is a lag, right? where people
are um what we're seeing in the margins
today are still at that pre uh price
increase because they pulled forward so
much inventory in the first quarter.
However, what we're hearing is that we
do think that there will be further
margin prices heading into Q1, Q2 next
year.
>> Do you have a sense of how much prices
will increase? Is it just commensurate
with inflation? Is it beyond that? I
mean, is there a range that retailers
are getting a sense of during the
holiday season based on what they can
pass along and wear now?
Yeah, I think that's a great question. I
think what we're seeing at least in this
holiday season is that there is a mixed
bag of discounting strategies, right?
And I think how that falls into price
increases where you're seeing retailers
capping markdowns on well-selling items
um that still may have value that the
consumer is still going to show up and
buy or they're trying to expand their
discounting strategy to make sure that
they're getting uh that more consumers
are getting value for for a particular
product. So, I think it's a mixed bag
and that's more on the margin side, but
as you relate to the price increases, I
mean, I really think it's going to see
where they have to hold the line and
making sure that they're hitting their
margin forecast because they're all
worried about their bottom line P&L.
>> What with what about within the
subsectors, Lauren? Are there certain
parts of retail that are facing price
increases more than others?
>> Yeah, I would say right now, most
immediately, we're seeing it in home,
furniture, home goods, right? I think
because there was such a high
preponderance of sourcing in China in
those industries, the price increases
were just too swift u and they're
already being passed through. However, I
think we're seeing um better resiliency
in apparel and some specialty items as
well. So, I do think consumers are going
to hopefully benefit from that this
holiday season. Are the is the homegoods
also an issue? Just the fact that we've
seen some of the big box home
improvement stores that they continue to
lag because of issues within housing.
How does that trickle down to a homeg
goods sector for example?
>> Yeah, I think furniture is a good
example, right? We're seeing a little
bit more distress in that sector knowing
that just consumer spending,
discretionary home sales, etc., right?
People aren't going out purchasing
houses, therefore they don't need to
furnish their these new houses. And so I
do think that we are seeing the
immediate impact of that across the
sector.
>> Lauren Murphy of Wells Fargo, thank you
so much for taking the time. And Danny,
do you go to the store ever on post
Thanksgiving and celebrate by shopping?
>> I like as a creature who has a natural
level of built-in anxiety, I can't do it
cuz it skyrockets. I am one of the ones
like comfortably on my computer like a
cup of hot cocoa on one hand scrolling
through the deals. That's more my speed.
>> I think that that you're more the common
more the common denominator than you are
the exception at this point given how
many deals and offers I've been getting
in my inbox. But it seems like people
definitely decked out. Interesting to
see some of the retail earnings that
have come out this morning. A more
positive tone than not aside from Dick's
sporting goods, but a sense that if you
have a product that people want to buy
with efficiencies, a lot of them are re
resurrecting some of their post-pandemic
malaise. But that's also why I'm kind of
like scratching my head looking at again
the notes that I mentioned from Beimo
and from UBS security saying that this
is a consumer whose spending is waning.
You're not necessarily seeing that
across the board. But maybe it gets back
to this issue we've been dealing with.
People will say one thing and then they
still buy when faced with deals.
>> Yeah, this has been the conundrum right
now. Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Here's your
Bloomberg brief with Vonnie Gwen.
Vonnie, Lisa, thank you. The European
Union is rejecting the US's demand to
ease tech regulation in return for lower
steel tariffs. The EU's antitrust chief
says the block's digital rule book is
quote not up for negotiation. The
comments came after Commerce Secretary
Howard Lutnik told Bloomberg his
administration could relax levies in
return for the roll back.
President Trump signing an executive
order on Monday establishing the quote
genesis mission, a federal effort to
boost innovation using AI. It aims to
coordinate research done by government
agencies to integrate AI tools.
Officials say the push will accelerate
scientific discoveries in engineering,
health sciences, and energy.
In sports, the San Francisco 49ers beat
the Carolina Panthers on Monday Night
Football. 49ers running back Christian
McCaffrey had over 140 yards from
scrimmage and a touchdown, while the San
Francisco defense held Bryce Young and
the Panthers to just nine points. The
Niners improved to 8-4 on the season and
Carolina falls to six and six. That is
your Bloomberg brief, Lisa.
>> Thank you so much, Bonnie. Up next,
powering the AI buildout.
We are in the midst of a major
technological transformation uh that
sure requires a lot of chips and
requires a lot of uh uh data and data
centers but also requires a lot of
energy.
>> Samantha Dart of Goldman Sachs joining
next. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
Can we make it day three of a rally?
After two straight days of gains that
were some of the biggest that we've seen
since the post liberation day rally, uh
we are seeing an S&P futures at least
that are turning around after being down
as much as 210 of a percent earlier. The
NASDAQ also turning around as people get
a little bit more optimistic about the
efficiencies and some of the new
progress and new uh developments going
on there. You are seeing a little bit of
a lift in longerterm yields, but just
4.03%
on the front end of the yield curve. You
do see a bid with the Fed very much in
focus. San Francisco Fed President Mary
Dailyaly endorsing the idea of a
December rate cut under surveillance
this morning. Powering the AI buildout.
Everything is about energy, right?
Energy and technology are the main
drivers of productivity. And we are in
the midst of a major technological
transformation. Uh that sure requires a
lot of chips and requires a lot of uh uh
data and data centers, but also requires
a lot of energy. So the technology and
the energy are combining.
>> Here's the latest. Electricity demand
set to surge as the race to
revolutionize AI calls for more energy.
Samantha Dart of Goldman Sachs writing,
"As AI demands massive power, reliable
and ample power supply is likely to be a
key factor shaping this race." Samantha
joins us now. Sam, thank you so much for
being here. Let's start there. Uh the
idea of a race against whom is this?
China versus the US and a question of
who can get the most computing power and
then who can actually power said uh
programming.
>> Yeah, these are the two front runners.
You have today the US holding over 40%
of all data centers in the world right
here. But China's number two, a little
over 20%. And when we look at what's
ahead, do we have the capacity to keep
this going? I think that's where the
differences really start to show because
in the US, we're already seeing about
eight out of the 13 power markets,
regional markets in the US already
strain during peak summertime. Whereas
in China, spare capacity is not only
much larger, but we estimate that it
would get even larger over the next five
years. So without the US building
massive amounts of power in the next 5
years, which is really going to be the
time when AI is really ramping up, this
really comes down to efficiency and how
much more efficient can chips get, which
is the reason why everyone's focused so
much on Google today and this idea of
their TPUs, uh the idea of a more
efficient chip that uses less energy
versus Nvidia's GPUs. How much is that
important? and a necessary ingredient
for the AI race to really continue in
the United States.
>> I think it's key because otherwise we're
just not going to be able to add enough
capacity to continue to feel this. So,
for example, already this summer we saw
the Eastern Atlantic market in the US,
the power market really tight. We saw
real realtime power prices spiking to
reach record highs. We saw capacity
auctions reaching record prices. So,
it's the market positioning not just to
price your peak summer uh price very
high, but hey, we're going to need to
pay uh utilities a lot more to build
additional capacity in the long run
because what we have is just not
sufficient. So, either we get more
efficient or we're going to start to see
bottlenecks or at least a slowdown in
the addition of data center capacity in
the US. How much is there a timing
mismatch? Because everybody's running to
the gold rush, the field of dreams,
build it and they will come. Trying to
build more energy capacity. Presumably,
it takes some time for these to get
online. Is there a concern that we are
ramping up so much with our demand of AI
and what we're expecting versus the
ability of these projects to come
online?
>> Yeah, it's almost like you have two
lines. The data centers are coming in
troves. And on the power generation
side, it's not that it would normally
take so long. You would ordinarily build
a natural gas fire power plant in two
years if you had the turbine. But we
have a four to five year queue to get a
new turbine if you want to start a
project today. So you're having to rely
on other sources. And what do you have?
Well, we we're still building a lot of
renewables, but they are intermittent.
So they are not always there. You need
something to back it up. We can't build
nuclear because every time we try it
takes many many more years than planned
and it costs a lot more. So, we're sort
of running out of options if we don't
have that efficiency gain in the very
near term. And the result ends up being
that our peak summer periods are going
to be tighter and tighter in power
markets and giving room to price spikes
and potentially even outages. All this
conversation also just always leads me
to think, what does Europe do? Europe
already faced an energy crisis. They're
still trying to wean themselves off of
Russian energy. Can they compete when
even without data center demand they
struggle to get the capacity that they
need?
>> Yeah, I think it's unlikely they can
compete and a lot of that is because
they haven't even secure their energy
sources. So when we think about um who
has enough energy to power all of this
and the US has already become an energy
net exporter. But if you look at Europe
even though a lot of Europe is not using
Russian gas for example anymore that
dependency just switched to imported
liqufied natural gas. You still have to
import it. So almost 50% of Europe's
energy has to be imported. So that
dependency is still there. The grid is
very old. They don't have rare earth.
They don't have uranium. So it's a very
vulnerable place to be.
>> So let's start talking about some price
levels. Liqufied natural gas. How much
do you see uh prices increasing say in
the next 12 months?
>> Actually we're now starting a wave of
supply growth in liqufied natural gas
and the US is a big driver of that. The
US is going to drive more than 50% of
global growth in LG supply. So that's
the the the bright side for Europe if if
I can find one um is that their access
to energy is likely to become more
affordable over the next several years.
So this is the conundrum. You have on
one hand the liqufied natural gas prices
going down because of supply. You have
actual gasoline uh diesel also diesel I
guess less so but prices going lower
because of the supply glut that you're
seeing coming out of the Middle East and
uh other places. So where is the crunch
going to happen right? Where are the
prices going to go up? so materially
that people are going to really feel the
pain.
>> Yeah. I think at least in the US what
we're seeing so far is that the
bottlenecks and and the the price
pressure points I think are more likely
to show when it comes to power price
than for example natural gas prices or
even gasoline prices. So uh it it's
really a power story a lot more than
gas.
>> This is an administration that's
increasingly been focused on afford
affordability in recent weeks. If the
net result of what you're talking about
is everyday consumers also feel that
higher higher energy price, is there
anything the administration can do to
solve these bottlenecks or do they just
need to be worked out? That's a great
point because we're here talking about
potential bottlenecks on infrastructure,
but if it becomes a political issue
because electricity prices are rising,
that becomes another type of bottleneck.
And because we can't really fix
infrastructure building that fast, the
only thing that policy can do is just
make permits come a little faster. But
if we can't get a turbine in less than 5
years, we still have a problem. How much
is this ultimately going to rest with
the hyperscalers having to pay for the
power themselves and create their own
power plants themselves, which to some
degree they're doing off the grid to
some degree that could essentially
become stranded assets. But how much is
that kind of the path of travel going
forward?
>> That seems to be the path of travel. But
they will face those same bottlenecks.
They still need the gas turbines for
their own power generations uh power
generators even if those are off the
grid, right? If they are separated from
the grid. And by the way, even if you
have a generator off the grid, as your
capacity grows, if your power demand
grows with it, by the time you reach
that generator capacity, guess what? You
need to connect to the grid eventually
anyway. So what's the trade? I mean if
you're going to advise investors on what
to invest in to capitalize on the demand
outstripping supply where do you go?
>> So there are a couple of things to think
about. I think from a US perspective we
think the trade is much more focused on
power prices. So one thing that we have
raised to clients is hey look at the
back end of power price curves because
we're going to need to incentivize more
build out and that's going to show up in
the back end of the curve. But if you
turn around and look at Europe for
example, we were talking about all that
vulnerability. You need to import a lot
of materials. You don't have earths. You
don't have this, you don't have that. So
we have been recommending that investors
in Europe in particular hold commodities
in their portfolio as a hedge to all of
this going wrong. Samantha Dart of
Goldman Sachs, thank you so much for
being with us. Really appreciate it. Sam
Dart there uh talking about the power
demands and this is going to be an
affordability issue. And Danny, I'm so
glad that you brought that up because
increasingly uh there was a a chart that
I saw that prices for energy have
remained steady because gas prices have
come down so much that that's offset the
increase that so many people have
already felt in their electricity bills
>> and what happens if that reverses and
how does politics get involved and it's
happening in multiple sectors. This idea
of crowding out it's happening in
electricity also in manufacturing. a
really great Bloomberg story a couple
weeks ago that manufacturing spending,
not AI related, has started to trail
off. So, a lot of the capital,
resources, energy increasingly going to
the dominance of AI. Yeah. And to
retailers, which is what we've seen this
morning, which we'll be talking about
coming up as we get some retail sales
data from September as well as of course
ADP numbers coming out at 8:15. Coming
up, Joe Amato of Newberger Berman, Tracy
Chen of Brandy Wine, Puja Sriram of
Barclays, and Krishma Namani of
Lafayette College. This is Bloomberg
surveillance. Good morning.
>> The reality is the fundamentals are
still sound.
>> I don't think we have yet seen the real
bubble trade in AI.
>> The market's done a little bit of work
here to take some of the froth out. I
think you could have a situation where
the Magnificent 7 become a little less
valuable and the rest of the market
becomes more valuable. We think there's
a broadening out.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. US retail sales and
inflation data on deck in about 30
minutes as retailers kick off the
holiday shopping season with more Fed
officials signaling a willingness to cut
rates next month. The real question of
the consumer and focus and Alphabet
displaying new market dominance on both
the software and the hardware sides of
the AI story with the latest reports
saying Meta may buy Google's AI chips in
the years to come. Danny showing the
evolution of the AI trade into
efficiencies and winners and losers.
It's not all tides are rising or at
least all rising at the same rate. But
what does it mean for an industry that
started to get very reliant on Nvidia?
not just their GPUs, but the funding
that they're doing. Open AAI has that
relationship with Nvidia. Anthropic has
a relationship with Nvidia. If all of a
sudden they're thinking, "Oh, we need a
change of different chips. Nvidia starts
to suffer." What does that mean to the
interconnected web that it is woven?
>> Yeah. And is this part of the natural
transition that actually is healthy with
people moving from AI is everything and
superseding any kind of weakness you're
seeing in the underlying economy or the
consumer to okay let's figure out what's
going on with the consumer the
underlying economy and and and cater to
it. It seems like right now that's the
question that's bearing out in markets
where you didn't see participation over
the past two days of the rest of the
493.
This morning maybe we're seeing a little
shift in tone because of the earnings.
It is kind of remarkable to look at the
companies that have reported this
morning. Best Buy lifting their outlet
outlook. Burlington, those shares
dropped because apparently it wasn't
good enough. But Cole's soaring. It is
some real dispersion among the
retailers. The takeaway though is people
are buying. They are buying goods. But
will that strength continue with again I
saw a lot of bearish notes this morning.
Maybe not outright bearish, but
basically saying that some of the
consumer is going to wain this holiday
season and the pick up in spending won't
be as big as we're used to.
>> Yeah. Bearish. talking about 7,500
rather than maybe pinky China's 8,000
from Deutsche Bank for year end 2026.
Right now we're seeing uh some of the
tepid losses turn into tepid gains on
S&P futures unchanged on the day. You
are seeing a bit of a bid into the bond
space across the board as people start
to look to the Fed to potentially cut
next month. Tenure yields now below
4.02%.
In the day ahead, we get ADP uh payrolls
number coming out at just about 13
minutes time. Then at 8:30, we do get
retail sales as well as PPI. And then of
course uh tomorrow we do get the beige
book as well. Watch for that as we try
to get a sense of sentiment. Coming up
this hour, we've got Joe of Newberger
Burman with the latest stock rally sort
of trying to find direction. and Tracy
Chen of Brandy Wine as Google's chip
challenge has Nvidia shares falling and
Puja Sriram of Barclays as we break down
the latest or maybe not the latest but
at least the latest that we get economic
data. We begin this hour with stocks
just about flat following Wall Street's
best day in six weeks. Joe Amato of
Nurburger Berman writing this AI is a
double-edged sword. Diversification
across asset classes put a focus on
quality uh plus a focus on quality could
help mitigate shocks stemming from AI
related disruption at the macro or micro
levels. Joe joins us now. Join Joe,
thank you so much for being with us.
>> Good to be with you.
>> This really goes to the heart of the
question, right? Is it a feature or a
bug that AI kind of marches to its own
drum at a time when there are so many
questions about the underlying economy?
Do you think that this is a feature in a
place that can actually keep equities
charging higher into 2026? I think I
think AI is going to be a massive
creative destruction process. So you're
going to see a lot of winners and a lot
of losers. Um so those companies that
are able to adopt uh AI techniques to
help protect margins, enhance their own
earnings, I think are going to be the
real opportunity, right? You've had the
the enablers rally in a big way over the
course of the last number of quarters
and and years for that matter. So the
first and as I call them the first and
second derivative AI stocks but now as
that gets dispersed through the broader
economy you're going to see the benefits
of that as you saw in the early 2000s
when more and more companies adopted the
internet and got the margin enhancement
from that.
>> Will the rest of the economy feel it
right I mean we're s sitting here trying
to assess the state of the US economy
and how much you can get this divergence
between AI and everything else. Will you
get a convergence as you see a
broadening out of the AI related gains
in non- tech companies? I think that's
what we expect. I mean, that's that's
that's what drives this broadening out
theme that that we're seeing. And uh you
know, you're already seeing it in the
context of companies talking about use
cases to gain efficiencies, whether it's
Walmart talking about on their quarterly
earnings about not really increasing
headcount over the course of the next
couple of years, yet, you know, showing
good earnings and good margin
improvement, right? So, they're figuring
out ways to get that efficiency from
adopting these technology uh tools.
There was a study I was looking at from
Kendra. It's a spin-off from IBM, which
does consulting for different companies,
saying that 62% of companies who are
trying to implement AI are in pilot
purgatory, as in they're trying to find
ways and experimenting with ways, but
haven't actually cracked the nut. If we
are going to see productivity play out,
how long is the timeline? Is this
something you expect to be adopted and
put into motion very quickly, or is this
a multiple years long trajectory? I
think it's going to it's going to happen
faster than the integration adoption of
the the broad-based internet we think
you know which took a good decade or so
but that said it's a it's a challenge
right we see it in our own firm right
there are use cases we develop for our
investment professionals that can be
quickly implemented and find real
efficiencies in in you know their
investment processes at the same time
when you're changing workflows
and you're affecting multiple areas of
in our case our firm or you know, the
examples you're using, it's a little
harder. It's going to take some time,
but I think it's coming. And and some of
the studies that we've all read about,
seen, whatever around questioning the
return on investment or the efficiency
gains, it's just too early to tell. I
mean, you know, we see it like we've
been what I would consider an early
adopter at our firm. I mean, we were
pushing out these tools in the summer of
23 for folks to start using, yet we're
still in the I would say early innings
of of really having it more integrated
in the entire firm. So, does that mean
you're not in the camp of, "Oh, no, the
financial services industry is about to
lose all of its junior employees because
uh chat GPT is going to develop some
model that takes away the grunt work." I
I do think that AI uh is going to put
pressure on uh low-end white collar
services jobs and that's a lot of what
the, you know, folks coming right out of
school. So, what you're seeing now, you
know, college grads are struggling to
find a job and we're all seeing that the
level of youth unemployment is higher
than it's been. So that's worrisome for
the labor market, right? At the same
time from the financial services
industry, they can gain those
efficiencies where you didn't need to
necessarily have as many young folks as
uh as you needed before.
>> How are you understanding the recent uh
declines that we saw before two days ago
before last Friday uh in the AI space? I
mean, is this an opportunity to buy? Is
this a sign of tightening liquidity? Is
this a sign that maybe people are
getting less patient? And how are you
sort of using this period to reset going
into 2026?
>> Well, you had a massive rally in in
those those enablers that that that I
talked about, right? The first and
second derivative AI stock. So having a
pause considering the challenges, the
question whether you know the pace of AI
investment is going to continue at that
level, what are the hurdles, right? I
heard your last guest talking about
power. Power is going to be I think an
important element of of of the AI
trajectory. Um but you know as we move
into 26 we're optimistic. I think we we
see the economy running particularly
here in the US at a reasonable clip. Uh
third quarter could be in the three plus
range for GDP growth which is pretty
remarkable. And when you think about the
level of job growth that we've seen in
the third quarter it tells you
something's going on with productivity
because we had reason you know it seems
we'll have reasonable economic growth
yet modest amount of job growth. But as
we move into 26 earnings are in good
shape. economy seems to be running at a
decent clip and we think the Fed
directionally is cutting rates and
that's a that's that's a good foundation
moving into the new year.
>> Your characterization is different than
what we heard yesterday from the likes
of Mike Wilson over at Morgan Stanley as
well as Owan over at Wells Fargo who was
talking about a real tightening in both
liquidity as well as a sense that the
economy was flagging and that it wasn't
necessarily productivity. The sort of
the jury is still out about why we
haven't seen more uh job growth and why
we have seen ongoing earnings from
corporations. They were saying they
expect aggressive rate cuts,
quantitative easing essentially uh by
another name and fiscal stimulus coming
in. How much is that part of your thesis
for 2026?
>> Well, I think you're, you know, the
fourth quarter is probably going to be a
little bit of a soft patch because of
the government shutdown. So it won't,
you know, we don't think the run rate of
the economy in the third quarter is
going to continue in the fourth quarter,
but I think we do expect to pick up in
uh in 26 based on rate cuts, based on
the stimulus in the bill, which will
which is very much front-loaded in in
calendar year 26, you know, purposefully
so by the administration, surprise,
surprise. Uh so I think that builds
again a foundation for a better
environment. Um uh you know, this is
what makes markets. You know, people
have different views on on the pace of
economic activity. I mean we're we're
we're reasonably sanguin about where
things are right now
>> when it comes to what makes markets and
the structure of it. Do you take
anything away from the last two weeks
where you had a riskoff that really felt
to be led by high momentum names by
crypto investments and it had a
spillover effect in the whole market? Is
there some sort of fragility or at least
concern you can take from that and
extrapolate into 2026? I think we we saw
a fair amount of frothiness and I don't
think you have a market rally as hard as
it has or in in every bull market you're
going to have some level of of excess uh
excitement if you will. Uh so that
coming back to reality is a good thing
in our view right and again it also
plays into the notion that it's not just
about those AI technology stocks that
are where you want to be. I think you
want to think about how that broadening
out uh it becomes an opportunity from uh
from an equity market standpoint. A lot
of people though have been punished
either one missing some of the AI stuff
or trying to outright bet against it.
Michael Bur is traded in his hat as a
hedge fund manager to be a Substack
writer apparently because of it. And
there was this really interesting
Goldman note I was reading. People who
want to short this market seem to be
playing it through utilities. 3.2% of
free flow to short interest isn't a huge
amount, but apparently it's one of the
highest on record. And they reckon that
it's a way to play against AI. If
someone were to come to you and say,
"Joe, I'm nervous about AI." What would
you tell them to do? Can you be short
this market or do you need to turn
somewhere else? I
>> I would be care be careful shorting this
market. I think uh because of the
foundations that we talked about uh in
the in the expansion that we see in the
broading out. Uh but you know you're
you're you're going to see a lot of this
as I as I referenced this creative
destruction process. You're going to see
a lot of winners but you're going to see
a lot of losers and it's going to happen
faster than people think about. So does
it create an opportunity to short
individual names versus you know the
losers that you think versus the
winners? I think it does. you know that
level of dispersion in single stock
volatility I think creates those
opportunities but from a broad-based
standpoint I'd be careful uh to be
short.
>> Yeah it might make people feel more
confident actually to be long. Joe Amato
thank you so much for being with us Joe
of Newberger Burman. That's what a lot
of people have been saying on the show
right Danny that the more people talk
about bubbles the better they feel that
there isn't one.
>> Well also if you're in the beginning
stages of a bubble the best thing you
can do is buy and to ride it to the top.
But yeah a lot of people have been
punished betting against it. Michael Bur
kind of a poster child at this moment I
think for that. But Substack, a warm and
fuzzy place right now. Let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here's your Bloomberg brief
with Bonnie Quinn. Vonnie, Lisa, thank
you. Cole's shares jumping in the
pre-market after a reported third
quarter earnings that topped analysts
top and bottom line estimates. The
retailer also posting better than
expected com sales and raising its
fullear outlook. Best Buy shares also
rising. The techer reported strong
thirdarter uh earnings that beat
estimates. The company boosting its
fullear adjusted earnings per share
guidance and projecting higher comp
sales and revenue for the fiscal year.
And in tech, shares of Google parent
Alphabet rising in the pre-market on
reports Meta is in talks to spend
billions of dollars on the search giants
AI chips. The information is reporting
Meta plans to use Google's Tensor
processing units or TPUs in data centers
from 2027. An agreement would help
establish TPUs as an alternative to
Nvidia's AI chips. And that is your
rumor brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Up next, we'll be
breaking down the ADP employment report.
Plus, Tracy Chen, Brandy Wine as
Alphabet has its sight set on $4
trillion. That's next. You're watching
Bloomberg Surveillance.
The AI theme has just come to the
investment grade market. One of the
risks is it starts to lift yields across
the board and starts to make the cost of
capital more expensive for other
companies that ultimately could be a
drag on growth down the line. the
investment grade market was, you know,
practically invented for this. It's
going to be a while until we get to a
point where it starts to to degrade.
>> That was Edal Husini of Columbia Thread
Needle speaking just moments ago. As we
head to the market open, we are looking
for uh those economic data points
including ADP. We will bring them to you
when we get them. Uh right now, I
believe that the ADP numbers just
crossing. Let's head over to Bloomberg's
Michael McKe. Mike,
>> good morning, Lisa. Well, this is uh not
good news considering it's the second
week in a row that we see a decline in
ADP. Average 13,500
jobs a week were lost in the four weeks
to November 8th. Now, remember, uh this
is a four-week moving average and it's
also a couple of weeks behind, but it is
the latest information that we have from
ADP and it isn't particularly good news.
We will get the monthly numbers next
week and that may give us a better clue
as to where the labor market is. But it
certainly looks like uh the weekly ADP
numbers to the extent you can trust them
are making the case that the uh doves
were making uh the last couple days and
suggesting that the Fed might want to
cut rates again. The idea that private
payroll losses are accelerating in the
past four weeks. Bank speaks to what we
heard in the Wall Street Journal article
with San Francisco Fed President Mary
Daly when she was talking about how she
has seen a real time deterioration in
the labor market. How much is that sort
of coalescing that idea kind of bringing
together a lot of the Fed members uh
based on just what's happening on the
ground over the past few weeks?
Well, you look at the number of uh open
market committee members who have said
they are uh open to or want to cut rates
and you can see that there is a trend
that has solidified since the last Fed
meeting when J. Pal told us it was not a
by any means a foregone conclusion that
they would cut. It seems that a lot of
these Fed officials talking to
businesses around their districts have
seen that companies are going ahead and
this was always a question out there
would be when do companies have to make
a decision one way or another about
personnel while they wait for the
confusion about Trump's economic
policies to clear up hasn't cleared up
and they do seem to be making some
decisions now.
>> Thank you so much Michael McKe. We are
seeing uh just a little move uh in bond
futures, although not significantly.
Two-year yields lower now uh more
significantly to 3.47%.
Now, the bonds across the uh maturity
spectrum getting a bid. Time now for the
morning calls. First up, Beimo Capital
lowering its price target on Nova
Nordisk to $46, expecting negative
headwinds for 2026. Next up, Mizuo
lowering its price target on Tesla to
$475,
noting weaker electric vehicle makers in
China and the US. Those shares
essentially flat. And finally, DA
Davidson keeping a neutral rating on
Alphabet, seeing increasing demand for
Google's TPUs following a report from
the information that Meta is in talks to
spend big on the company's AI chips and
Google shares up 4.3% in early trading.
Sticking with tech Nvidia the other side
of that shares falling following that
report from the information Tracy Chen
of Brandy Wine Global writing the winner
takes all mentality in the United States
has led to aggressive capex spending and
hoarding of computing capacity which is
gradually diminishing free cash flow.
Tracy joins us now. Tracy, thank you so
much for being with us. I wanted to
start with a question of how much we're
seeing the winners and losers shake out
now or were they just getting a hint of
what it's going to look like say in six
months?
Good morning Lisa. I think we are still
in the early stage of this AI investment
or AI arms race. Uh right now we are
still uh getting some uh little hint
about this winner and loser. Uh because
today you can see Google share up and
the media share down. I'm not saying who
is the winner, who is the loser. But you
start to see this uh differentiating uh
market response um to this AI
development because before we have seen
anything that touched AI, we'll see the
the stock up, right? But now we can see
the differentiation and which is a
healthy development.
>> Does that mean Tracy, it doesn't pay off
to play this passively considering we're
starting to see some of the
differentiations between companies? Do
you want to be actively managed not even
only in just picking sectors but within
some of the hyperscalers and big tech
concentrated around AI?
>> Definitely. Definitely. So if you look
at their uh CA K capeex spending as a
share of the free cash flow you can see
a divergence uh among the magnificent 7
or AI30. Um you can see some companies
are already uh over 100% uh meaning
their cape spending already exceeding
their free free cash flow but some
companies uh the percentage is still
below 20%. So so you can see who is uh
really stretching and who is still
having a lot of free cash flow room for
for expansion. So Tracy, year to date,
it's a market that the best performing
sectors have been anything AI related.
Communication services is number one,
then infoch, then utilities, then
industrials. Again, those last two, you
could argue about AI. The thing that's
been left behind and has barely inched
to a year-to- date gate gain is consumer
staples and consumer discretionary
stocks, too. We have a whole host of
earnings coming out this morning of some
of the retailers. Some of them are
strong, some of them aren't strong.
Tracy, when can you jump in and buy
these parts of the economy that don't
touch the AI related story?
>> I think next year we should see a
broadening of this AI scene. uh
especially if you look at the the key
shape economy of the U US especially the
consumers the the halves and have nots I
I would think that uh if you look at the
consumer discretionary that has been
outperforming the consumer staples and
that uh I think next year would probably
will will accelerate this kind of uh uh
dispersion but if Trump is tackling the
the affordability problem I we will see
this um this trend probably revers just
a little bit and and and and the AI
expansion theme or broadening theme
should continue next year.
>> There's been about $200 billion of debt
sales tied to AI in just uh the past
couple of months alone. I mean, I feel
like it's been an absolute bond bonanza
over the past couple of weeks. And I'm
just wondering at what point you say no,
I mean, as an investor, are you buying
or are you saying I don't really want to
be get stuck with this stuff?
>> Yeah, I think u I'm more optimistic of
this AI investment theme. I think we are
still in the early stage. Uh as an
investor, you just can't miss this uh
secular trend and AI revolution is so
massive, right? It's arms race not only
within the US but also between China and
US and the government will support this
uh investment. Um so I think um the
market actually give the message that
hyperscaler or hyper spender you have to
slow down and this kind of a winner take
all mentality might not work out as
well. uh because in China we we we see
it's not winner take all it's winners
share all right um so uh there are
several companies they they share with
each other their their their knowhow and
they build something together but in the
US um you can see this aggressive
competition uh because of the winner
take all mentality and and this uh
aggressive new issuance in the IG
corporate market definitely uh get some
push back from investors right investor
will give them more scrutiny uh to see
um the the the monetization pace right
whether the monetization uh will will go
well or or not and they are they start
to differentiate uh between among
different players and I I think um we
are going to see some spread widening uh
next year in IG corporate market and and
this will will actually have some
pressure on the long end of the treasury
curve um that's uh that is my view but
as an investor you can still play some
short duration like data center ABS and
uh it has a structural protection as
well So you can diversify your portfolio
and and uh be very active um and have
some active selection and and you you
should have a attractive return.
>> Tracy Chen of Brandy Wine, thank you so
much for being with us. Just digging
into some details now uh from the ADP
report. Joining us again, Bloomberg's
Michael McKe. Mike, we've got some more
details about what potentially is
causing the deceleration and where the
bright spots are and where the weak ones
are.
Well, we don't really have any
particular bright spots other than
health care, which has been normally the
biggest job creator. The weaknesses have
been concentrated in manufacturing and
construction. Uh, and those don't seem
to be improving. What's interesting is
that ADP had previously reported a gain
of 42,000 jobs in their monthly report
for the month of October. And this
report that's out today covers the four
weeks up until November 8th and suggests
a uh collective uh weekly average loss
of 13,500. So those two don't square
exactly and this is much more of a
gloomy report. This would take you into
the first week of November and the last
three weeks of October. So uh it's hard
to get a clear reading on where the
economy is at this point. Uh but it does
suggest there's some question about how
strong uh the economy, the labor market
is.
>> Michael McKe, thank you so much for
that. You do see two-year yields falling
in response to this report leading into
the data that we get uh just in about 5
minutes time right now. You're looking
at a decline of about three basis
points. Not that much drama in the
2-year yield, but nonetheless, Danny,
definitely raising questions about the
trajectory and just how stale September
data is in a very rapidly moving labor
market. And that's why you care more
about data points like this and also
feeds into the merry daily argument that
the labor market is more concerning
because if there should be a linear move
that's more difficult to control than
inflation is. Yeah. Coming up we are
going to be speaking about retail sales
and PPI that's due in less than 5
minutes time. Pujo Surama Barklay is
joining us to react and to react to the
ADP figures as we do see a shift at
least in tone from the jobs landscape.
This is blimper surveillance.
25 seconds away from retail sales and
PPI data from September. Right now, the
state of play is lining up like this.
You are seeing a bit of a lift in equity
futures, S&P futures higher just a touch
by a less than a basis point. Meanwhile,
you've got NASDAQ futures just
meandering again. Uh you are seeing the
Russell 2000 though with the lift up
half a half a percent which it really
comes in the heels of the rally that
we're seeing in the bond market twos
tens and 30s. You are seeing that bid
right now. We are getting that data.
Let's head over to Michael McKe with
retail sales and PPI. Mike
>> Alisa we've got a little bit of a
disappointment in terms of retail sales.
Headline retail sales come in up 210 of
a percent. They were up 610 in the month
of August. Now remember this is
September data. The expectation was for
a 4/10 rise. X autos were up 3/10 uh
which is what was forecast, but uh the
control group uh we don't have that
number yet. Hasn't come through yet.
We'll get that for you in just a second,
but X autos and gas up only a tenth of a
percent. So, a lot having to do with
prices there. In terms of PPI, the
headline PPI comes in up 3/10en of a
percent. It was down a tenth in the
month of August. So, there's a little
bit of an inflation issue there. Uh, the
core rate up a tenth of a percent. PPI
uh on a year-over-year basis is up 2.7%
that's a tick up in September from
August. And PPI core on a year-over-year
basis falls by 2/10 to 2.6% from 2.8%.
Retail sales control group comes in down
a tenth of a percent after a 6/10 rise
in August. So, uh, retail sales weaker
than expected. Inflation a little bit
hotter than expected, but mostly in the,
uh, headline groups, which probably
suggests the same thing as retail sales,
that gasoline prices, uh, energy prices
and car prices may have played the role
there.
>> We've seen a little bit of a build on
the market moves that we saw after ADP.
We see the bid into the front end of the
yield curve continuing with 3.4668
if you want to go out to the fourth
decimal. the sense that the Fed is going
to be prompted to cut rates based on the
fact that heading into this holiday
period back in September, there wasn't
that much momentum or at least as much
as people had expected and that yes,
inflation may be at the headline level a
little concerning, but under the hood,
not so much. Mike, how important is data
from September that we're getting now?
How do you understand this in the scheme
of understanding an economy that seems
to be rapidly moving?
Well, I think you hit the the major
problem there, Lisa, by saying the
economy is rapidly moving because the
Fed can't take a lot of comfort in this
data one way or another, even having it,
because it just tells you where we were
two months ago, and that is uh way
behind where we may be now. The real
question is what in terms of retail
sales are we going to see in this
holiday period? We've got uh Black
Friday coming up to kick it off. And
when you look at what we saw in the uh
retail sales numbers, car sales down
3/10en of 8%. Gasoline stations were up
2% but that was after a 3.1% gain. So uh
gasoline and food uh part of the problem
here. Uh clothing and accessories down
7/10 in uh the month of uh September.
and the uh sporting goods, hobbies, toys
down 2 1/2%, general merchandise up only
a tenth of a percent. People weren't
spending money on the things that we're
going to see them in theory spending
money on for the holidays. So, it is a
bit of a warning that consumers are a
little concerned. We've seen that in the
consumer expectation numbers as well,
>> maybe which is why we're seeing Dick
Sporting Goods shares falling and them
closing some Foot Locker stores.
Bloomberg's Michael McKe, thank you so
much. I'm sure there is more to it.
Let's head over to Puja Shar of Barclays
who joins us now here in studio. Puja,
thank you so much for being here. What's
your initial read on not just the
numbers that we just got, but the
importance of them based on the fact
that they're pretty old.
>> Yeah, I think look in in a in a
situation where we haven't been getting
a lot of fresh data. Some data is
useful. Uh I would say this helps sort
of fill in the gap between what happened
before this holiday season. Um, and if
anything, um, you know, there's it's
it's slightly useful. You're able to
build on a trend in terms of what was
happening in the economy heading into
the holiday period. But I I would not
deny that it is a bit backward looking.
Is there a little bit of a tension
between Mary Daly, someone who's very
close to Chair Powell, saying that she
is more concerned about the labor
market, John Williams saying that he
would endorse something of a cut, again,
the top lieutenant at the Fed versus the
last time we heard from Chair Powell
talking about this data fog, saying that
when you're in that fog, it makes sense
to move slowly. Is there tension in
those things?
>> I don't think so. Look, I think one one
thing that seems to be clear is everyone
is having a hard time figuring out if
policy is generally restrictive and
people have very different views on
that. Um, in addition to that, like you
said, the the data fault makes it
difficult. Uh, but the doves have
something to pick on. Um, and that would
be the rise in the unemployment rate
that we saw last week. Uh, maybe even
this morning's week ADP data, although I
do think it's somewhat of a noisy
signal. Um and on the other hand you
have um some of the others the hawks on
the committee who are genuinely worried
about inflation and would like to see
more contemporary news data perhaps
before making the move. So I think
there's just a genuine um difference of
views
>> and do you think that genuine difference
of views continues on because of the fog
or has something fundamentally shifted
at the Fed especially as you get more
politics injected into it? Do you expect
that regardless of how some of the data
shakes out that just lack of consensus
is the new normal?
>> Well, you know, I wouldn't go as far as
saying that politics is is coloring how
the Fed is thinking. It's just, you
know, we need to recognize the fact that
the data that we've been getting. Um,
you know, paints a picture of a slight
tension between the two mandates of the
Fed. Um, you do have a world where labor
market momentum has clearly slowed,
downside risks have emerged. On the
other hand, we haven't really seen much
progress on the inflation front. I think
the last time I was here, we were
discussing core PCE inflation has been
stuck at 2.8 2.9 since, you know, a
while now. And so I think there is a
legitimate reason for hawks and the
committee to be worried about the
inflation side of the mandate.
>> How important is this holiday shopping
season?
>> Well, usually it is reasonably quite
telling of consumer momentum, the health
of the consumer. Um, again, how much is
we're able to capture in the official
data is questionable just given we're
coming out of a long government
shutdown. Uh, but usually it's something
that people look at quite closely. I
guess how how accurate can we get a
reading uh when we take a look at
something like holiday shopping? And I
was struck by an essay that started to
talk about how uh the poverty line was
talking was was really referencing three
times the average family's food bill and
that food now comprises 5 to 7% of a
budget rather than a third of the
budget. And so it's completely changed
the equation and what people are feeling
on that lower end is a lot of
significant pain that is not being
reflected in any of these numbers. Can
that persist? Can you have a universe
where there is a growing cohort of
people who are feeling a lot of pain and
are not able to afford things and are
forgoing a lot of basic purchases, but
you have wealthier individuals that
continue to spend and prop up retail
spending. The holiday season does fine.
Can you have that indefinitely?
>> Yeah, I think that's it's hard to
answer. Indefinitely doesn't seem like
it's it's a reasonable assumption to
have, but that K-shaped economy has been
going on for a while now. Um I think
it's um you know it comes down to some
very basic statistics like the top 20%
of your income group drives more than
40% of consumer spending and I think
that's your point that you could have
data that looks absolutely fine even
when you have a lower income group
that's clearly feeling some pain. Now
just coming back to your holiday season
shopping um you know there's also a view
that consumers are now uh being very
intentional spenders. Um so one of the
things that some of the credit card data
show is uh consumers have not really
done offseason shopping as much this
year but it's really been a lot of
shopping that's been reserved for
promotion periods. So think about the
July Amazon Prime Day sort of an event
and perhaps coming into the holiday
season spending may look fine.
>> That doesn't sound like the healthiest
of developments though that everybody's
just waiting for value or a deal. when
does that become something worse that
okay yeah spending still happening
because they find deals but that in
itself suggesting that there is a little
bit more tension
>> yeah I think a lot of it is also tied to
the labor market right um we've been in
a labor market that seems very stagnant
so far yes we're not seeing as many
layoffs but there's not been too much
hiring as well um that's also likely to
feed into um consumer thinking and
sentiment um so to the extent that the
labor market is just about stuck in this
phase I think caution is perhaps perhaps
where the consumer is headed towards uh
it depends really on developments on
that front. What about then some of just
the headlines coming through of Verizon
letting go people, Amazon letting go
people? Does that have a measure of just
denting sentiment? Even if people
themselves haven't lost their job, but
just seeing these headline figures, does
that also cause some pullback in
people's willingness to spend money?
>> Perhaps. I mean, absolutely. The media
narrative around this um has been um you
know quite quite immense. Um a lot of
the headlines clearly grabbing attention
and these are big companies we're
talking about. So, you know, it can't go
unnoticed.
>> And right before Christmas, too.
>> Yes. And I'm I'm sure it's it is feeding
into sentiment. Um it's making people a
little more reticent to to spend. Um but
again, I think in the grand scheme of
things, um the the extent of layoffs
that we've seen are still not alarming.
You know, yes, they've come from big
companies. Uh but I would say it's you
know about the usual amount of friction
that you would see in a labor market uh
which is in the state that it is right
now but surely something that we need to
keep watching.
>> Rama Barkclays, thank you so much for
being with us this morning and have a
wonderful Thanksgiving. Let's head back
to Michael McKe who has some details
after parsing through uh the latest
retail and PPI data that we got out of
the uh United States government.
>> Well Lisa, I want to look at a little
bit of the PPI here. When you look at
the uh breakdown of goods versus
services, the index for final demand
goods increased 9/10en of a percent, but
services were flat. And it's the service
price increases that have been worrying
Fed hawks. So maybe this gives them a
little bit of reassurance. 60% of the
September rise in the index o the
headline index overall is traced to
gasoline, which is what we thought when
we first saw the numbers there. gasoline
and cars. Uh indexes for meat,
residential electric power, uh motor
vehicles and equipment all went up and
that's what you've been hearing pretty
much from everybody these days in terms
of inflation. So the Fed is seeing a
picture that it basically understands it
appears. Uh so uh now the question is
what kind of data do they have that tell
us where we've gone from here? uh we do
get uh the GDP report on now December
23rd for the third quarter. It should be
relatively strong given the numbers that
we have gotten. Uh but uh the Fed is
more concerned with where we are at the
moment in the fourth quarter and that
we're going to have to wait on.
>> Michael McKe, thank you so much for all
of that. Right now, priced into Fed
funds futures is an 80% chance of a
December rate cut. That is up from 35%
last Thursday. So, a sense of how much
the market has really shifted its
perception of how the Fed is going to
respond. Right now, let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your Bloomber brief
with Bonnie Quinn. Bonnie, Lisa, thank
you. So, recapping that data we got
moments ago, US retail sales in
September, rising just 2/10en of a
percent, half the estimate for 4/10en of
a percent of an increase. Producer
prices rose.3% month overmonth, which
met expectations, but ticked up to 2.7%
from a year earlier, which was above
estimates. And in the labor market, ADP
private payrolls fell an average of
13,500 per week over the four weeks
ended November 8th.
Apollo Global Management CEO Mark Rowan
saying people have quote lost their
minds over private credit fears. Rowan
rejecting the notion that adding private
assets to retirement and insurance
portfolios could pose a systemic risk.
According to the Apollo executive, most
private credit held by insurers and by
pension fund buyers is rated investment
grade.
Apple cutting jobs across its sales
organization in rare layoffs. Sources
telling Here at Bloomberg, the iPhone
maker has eliminated dozens of roles in
a bid to streamline the way it offers
products to businesses. The effective
positions include account managers and
staff who operate Apple's briefing
centers and product demonstrations. That
is your Bloomberg brief, Lisa.
>> Thank you so much, Bonnie. Up next,
Krishna Mammani of Lafayette College as
traders add to December rate cut bets.
Plus, Vonnie Quinn comes back with your
morning movers. Kohl's and Aberi shares
soaring following strong earnings
results. This has been quite the initial
read on the holiday shopping season.
This is Blueber Surveillance.
This third quarter's results from the
tech leaders show huge capital spending
commitments which will continue to boost
the investment share. Open question on
productivity longer term. You know,
we've looked at this in our long-term
capital market assumptions work. We do
feel that productivity is set to gain,
but it's a long burn. It requires the
investment first. And so, we think that
there's reasons to be positive.
>> That was John Bilton of JP Morgan Asset
Management joining the crowd of uh
investors who are seeing a better 2026,
potentially even another year of double
digit gains. This morning you are seeing
a lift uh pretty much across the board.
Although S&P futures uh going nowhere at
this point uh essentially flat. You are
seeing though a bid into bonds after
data that really pointed to ongoing
softness particularly in retail
spending. 10-year yields now almost at
that 4% level. A little bit of dollar
weakness. Euro strength 115 with an
increasing number of investors gaming
out the idea of ongoing dollar weakness.
Under an hour away from the cash open.
Here are your morning movers with Vonnie
Quinn. Vonnie, well Lisa, one of the
stories out there today is when will
Nvidia's prevalence in the GPU space be
undermined? And today might be the
beginning of that because we are seeing
the information reporting that Meta is
buying billions of dollars worth of
Google's AI chips. Now they're TPUs,
right? So if you know people start
buying TPUs instead of GPUs, then that
might be a problem for Nvidia. So we're
seeing the stock suffer AMD suffer a
little bit as well and Alphabet continue
its rise. The thing is it's a very very
big question, right? Nvidia has been the
market leader for so long now. What
would switching costs be? Would
companies even be able to get out of
contract? It's a very open question and
we'll be getting lots of analysis on
that throughout the coming days. But
let's take a look at some retailers
because here are two turnaround stories
and boy are investors rewarding these
companies. Kohl's essentially continuing
the same strategy as the new CEO's
predecessor. So the new CEO is Michael
Bender. He's been in the job on an
interim basis since May. Well, the third
quarter really bore out that strategy
which was to focus on jewelry and to
focus on petites and it beat and raised
even though it was still seeing lower
sales year-over-year and on a quarterly
basis. But that said, investors
rewarding that stock. Now, Abberi and
Fitch, the same thing. Fran Horowit,
it's really delivering there as well.
For the Hollister brand, mainly same
same sales comp sales for Hollister up
16% as opposed to a forecast for up 6 to
7% for the whole company. So, not a bad
uh not a bad story. The reverse is
Burlington, right? Burlington used to be
known as Burlington Coat Traactory. And
of course, warmer weather styied
Burlington in many of major cities. At
least that's what Burlington is saying.
It didn't beat, it didn't raise. In
fact, it missed estimates and investors
are really punishing that stock.
Although to be fair, Abbercomi was was
down 56% year to date before today's
move. Burlington was actually flat year
to date.
>> Thank you so much, Vonnie. I appreciate
it. Have a wonderful uh rest of your
day. Cutting down to the opening bell.
Here's a trading diary for the week
ahead. After the closing bell, earnings
from Dell and HP. Wednesday, another
round of jobless claims, durable goods,
and the Fed releases its beige book.
Thursday, US markets are closed for
Thanksgiving. And finally, Black Friday,
the unofficial start of the holiday
shopping season, although perhaps this
is a black week because it is clearly a
full week affair. Turning to the
economy, Krishna Mani of Lafayette
College writing, "Before the shutdown,
stronger hard data anchored the market
expectations. The lack of hard data is
giving vibes a freer space." Krishna
joins us now with his vibes uh ahead of
Thanksgiving. Krishna, why is this
problematic given the fact that people
have learned to depend much more on
alternative data sources, whether it's
ADP or whether it's some of the
corporate executives on their earnings
calls? Well, I I I think people talk a
good game, but if you go back and look
at how the markets have reacted over the
last four or five quarters, the the vibe
data has been reasonably soft and then
hard data comes out and kind of gets it
out of that that particular funk. So,
yeah, I mean, alternative datas are
certainly data certainly is helpful, but
I I don't think they tell you the whole
picture. That hasn't been the case for a
while. So uh you know if third quarter
GDP as Michael Key says is going to be
reasonably strong and the underlying
deficit situation hasn't changed that
dramatically at least not not yet. Uh
then it's kind of unreasonable to expect
for things to slow down massively
despite the vibes.
>> Does that mean Krishna those on the Fed
that are arguing for a cut are making
that argument based off of vibes? Is
that a problem if they are? Well, I
mean, part of it is biased, but I think
the labor market is certainly softening
and and therefore uh you know, getting
ahead of it makes a little bit of a
little bit of sense. I was a little
surprised as to how hard uh J Powell
pushed on, uh pushed against that cut in
the last meeting. So, he clearly had a a
bit of a situation in the committee and
I think with everyone else kind of
lining up or at least the voting members
lining up, he's in a much better
situation. So that is getting reflected
in the in the market prices but there is
softening in the lab labor data without
any doubt not much layoffs but not much
hiring either.
>> So okay we have to read the tea leaves
to understand where this economy is and
then when it comes to the Fed Krishna
we've gotten to a place where we're
counting each vote who's on the hawkish
side who's on the doish side who has an
ear to Powell who's the top lieutenant
that could sway things. Is it a problem
that you don't have that clear message
coming out from the Fed? because as
we've seen it transmits into markets and
there's been a lot of volatility from
that in this new era where the economy
is confusing and there's a divide among
the Fed. Is that problematic for the
transmission of policy?
>> Well, so you know if if you think about
it uh you know you you you have two
separate blocks forming on the committee
and uh those blocks are you know the the
the presidents on one side and the
committee uh the FOMC members on the
other side. uh the the the challenge is
when Jay Powell was in charge and there
weren't all sorts of politicking going
on there was easy to kind of get to a
consensus and right now you can't get to
that consensus. So I I I think until the
new chairman is announced that pro that
particular challenge will probably uh
persist with us and we'll have to kind
of slot through it somehow. That being
said, I think as I said before, uh the
labor market was slowing continues to
slow a little bit, not catastrophically
so. So I think uh the push back last in
the for the last cut for the future cut
uh that Jal provided maybe was slightly
misplaced and uh the markets are
basically calling him out on it.
Krishna, heading into 2026, since this
is the moment of year- ahead outlooks
and everyone seems to be giving one, how
are you seeing uh the year shape up in
terms of riskreward for the stock bond
allocation and just, you know, what are
you baking in in terms of Fed action
behind that?
>> Well, so I I I think you you if you uh
look at the the market projections,
there are a few more cuts coming down
the pike. Uh but I I the the the key
thing with cuts is even if they do come,
I don't think they change the the the
the tone of the market meaningfully.
It'll still be driven by growth. It'll
still be driven by what happens in the
labor market. Uh I I think one or two
cuts in the front end of the market does
you know you look at 10 years hasn't
really moved much despite all the talk
of Fed cutting and Fed not cutting. So I
think that sort of tells you how it'll
persist and that's the environment where
inflation is still up so tenure cannot
go drop too much and growth is slowing
down so
at least modestly anyway. Uh and that's
not an environment where u risk assets
do fabulously well off of very high
valuations. I think that is really the
challenge for the market right now. So
you see kind of a middling uh 2026 in
terms of returns for both stocks and
bonds.
>> Yeah, I I you know again there are
people out there saying that it'll be
another double digit type of or you know
uh high double digit type returns. I I
can't square that with uh uh what I see
there you know for that uh uh everything
you know all this AI related stuff has
to come much before than it is likely to
come. So I I I think uh uh the the
profitability outlook is decent but it
is not as superlative relative to
current valuations. I think that's the
biggest challenge for the market.
>> Christian Mani of Lafayette College have
a wonderful Thanksgiving. Thank you so
much for joining us. You know it feels
like a Rubik's cube right now. It feels
like uh people are picking up different
threads of the narrative pointing to the
idea of rate cuts along with AI uh
escalation and saying it's going to be a
really good 2026 and other people saying
watch the economy and it's not so hot.
What are you focused on in the next
couple of hours? I know you're going to
be heading over to do another two hours
of television. I am indeed and it has to
be the churn underneath the surface of
these big tech players because it kind
of dominates all these themes because
it's an economy that's becoming more
reliant on the AI spend. So, if Nvidia
is kind of losing some of its throne to
Google, what does that mean for all the
spending, the investments, and thus the
American economy?
>> Yeah, this is what we'll be talking
about for uh many days and weeks to
come. Coming up tomorrow, Amy Wu
Silverman of RBC Capital Markets, Dan
Hives of Wedbush, Deborah Cunningham of
Federated Hermes, and Veno Krishna of
Barclays. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good morning.